---
layout: post 
category: S01 
header-img: IDTgKx2ncHc 
title: S01E06 -- The One with the Butt 
oloadid: c7LJBL-8xjw 
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWRbU03OGIxLUZzaUU
--- 
<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One With The Butt"</b> was the sixth episode of the <a href="/wiki/Season_1" title="Season 1">Season 1</a> of <i><a href="/wiki/Friends" title="Friends">Friends</a></i>.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p>The friends attend Joey's new musical, <a href="/wiki/Freud!" title="Freud!">Freud!</a> The musical is quite awful. Regardless of the bad play, Joey gets a business card from <a href="/wiki/Estelle_Leonard" title="Estelle Leonard">Estelle Leonard</a>, a talent agent. Chandler asks out a beautiful woman named <a href="/wiki/Aurora" title="Aurora">Aurora</a>.
</p><p><span>He goes out on a date with her, during which it comes out that Aurora is not only married to a guy named Rick, but has a boyfriend, Ethan. Nonetheless, she still wants to see Chandler for sexual reasons alone. Chandler thinks it's the perfect way relationship: all fun, talking, and sex, but no responsibility. The girls are shocked, but Ross is jealous. Joey, meanwhile, notes that he has to know he's dating more people than his girlfriend.</span>
</p><p>Joey's new agent manages to obtain him a role in the new Al Pacino movie. However, the role is Pacino's butt double in a shower scene. Despite this, Joey manages to ruin it by overacting his role, which gets him fired. The friends console him and reassure him that his big break is coming,
</p><p>Chandler is enjoying things with Aurora, but deep down, he wants to commit. Aurora clearly does not want this, as she is now with a <i>fourth</i> guy, Andrew. This makes the two break up.
</p><p>At Rachel's apartment, Monica reveals how obsessive she is with cleanliness and organization when she disapproves of Rachel's subtle changes to the living room after cleaning it. The guys think it's pretty much a flaw of Monica's, but she tries not to make a big deal out of it. However, she can't even bring herself to sleep by thinking of a pair of sneakers she left haphazardly in the living room just to let the guys think that she, like them, is a "kook".
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courtney_Cox" title="Courtney Cox" class="mw-redirect">Courtney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p><p><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b>Sofia Milos</b> - <a href="/wiki/Aurora" title="Aurora">Aurora</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/June_Gable" title="June Gable">June Gable</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Estelle_Leonard" title="Estelle Leonard">Estelle Leonard</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/James_Burrows" title="James Burrows">James Burrows</a></b> - Director<br />
<b>Jillian Fontaine</b> - Freud! Theatre Actress<br />
<b>Bryan Hanna</b>- Mean Guy in Coffee Shop<br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br /> 
Arlene Sanford<br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Adam_Chase" title="Adam Chase">Adam Chase</a><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia"> Trivia </span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="General">General</span></h3>
<ul><li> This is the first episode where the opening scene does not take place in <a href="/wiki/Central_Perk" title="Central Perk">Central Perk</a>.
</li><li> In uncut DVD version of the episode, this episode includes the first appearance of <a href="/wiki/June_Gable" title="June Gable">June Gable</a> as Joey's agent <a href="/wiki/Estelle_Leonard" title="Estelle Leonard">Estelle Leonard</a>. She signs Joey after his performance in "<a href="/wiki/Freud!" title="Freud!">Freud!</a>" and gets him the job as Al Pacino's butt double. An extra tag scene also features Ross, Rachel, Phoebe, Chandler and Joey singing the song from Joey's play.
</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs </span></h3>
<ul><li> When Joey is in the shower, he is supposedly naked but you can see from his shadow he is wearing swimming trunks.
</li><li> When filming the shower scene, behind the director there is a box which says "Monica's apartment".
</li><li> Chandler's bedroom in this episode is much bigger than the bedroom we will see in later episodes.
</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Memorable_Quotes"> Memorable Quotes </span></h2>
<p><b>Chandler</b>: Ross...ten o'clock.<br />
<b>Ross</b>: Is it? It feels like two.<br />
<b>Chandler</b>: No. Ten o'clock.<br />
<b>Ross</b>: What?<br />
<b>Chandler</b>: [pointing] There's a beautiful woman at eight, nine, ten o'clock!
</p><p><b>Joey</b>: Wow, an agency left me its card. Maybe they wanna sign me!<br />
<b>Pheobe</b>: Based on <i>this</i> play? [Everyone stares at Phoebe] Based on this <i>play</i>!
</p><p><b>Chandler</b>: How do you think your husband would feel about you sitting here with me, sliding your foot so far up my pant leg you can count the change in my pocket?<br />
<b>Aurora</b>: I imagine he'd be okay with you, because, really, he's okay with Ethan.<br />
<b>Chandler</b>: Ethan? There's an Ethan?<br />
<b>Aurora</b>: Ethan is my... boyfriend.<br />
</p><p><b>Joey</b>: When I'm with a woman, I need to know that I'm going out with more people than she is.
</p><p><b>Chandler</b>: Someone's left a glass on the coffee table... There's no coaster... It's a cold drink... It's a hot day. Little beads of condensation are inching their way closer and closer to the surface of the wood--<br />
<b>Monica</b>: Stop it!
</p>
