---
layout: post 
category: S01 
header-img: XH2EQ7sVLBg 
title: S01E08 -- The One Where Nana Dies Twice 
oloadid: gNlIcm6GqFI 
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWRenJ4MlBlem1TNDQ
--- 
<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One Where <a href="/wiki/Althea" title="Althea">Nana</a> Dies Twice"</b> was the eighth episode of the <a href="/wiki/First_season" title="First season" class="mw-redirect">first season</a> of <i><a href="/wiki/Friends" title="Friends">Friends</a></i> which aired on <a href="/wiki/NBC" title="NBC">NBC</a> on November 10, 1994.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p><a href="/wiki/Chandler" title="Chandler" class="mw-redirect">Chandler</a> is flattered to be offered to be set up on a date by <a href="/wiki/Shelly" title="Shelly">Shelly</a>, a female work colleague, until he learns that his potential date is a man. Shocked, he debates with the guys how he could possibly give off a homosexual vibe. 
</p><p>Monica gets a phone call from her father - her and Ross' grandmother <a href="/wiki/Althea" title="Althea">Althea</a> is in the last stages of life. The two rush to the hospital, where they wait for the inevitable with their parents and aunt, while they reminisce about Nana's habits, such as that of stealing Sweet 'n' Low packets from everywhere -- even the Geller's house.
</p><p>When the nurse comes over, the siblings go to give Nana a goodbye kiss; when Ross leans in, she moves abruptly and shocks them. Pandemonium ensues as Monica races to get the nurse, while Ross tells his family that she's not dead yet. <a href="/wiki/Jack_Geller" title="Jack Geller">Jack</a> mentions to <a href="/wiki/Aunt_Lillian" title="Aunt Lillian">Aunt Lillian</a>, who was out of the room, that Nana "may have died" and they're "looking into it". The nurse rushes back in, stating how "this almost never happens", but the flatline beeps, confirming that Nana is now truly gone. Ross emerges, confirming that now Nana is now truly gone.
</p><p>Monica and Ross help prepare the funeral: the former picks out coffins with her father; while Ross helps his mom <a href="/wiki/Judy" title="Judy" class="mw-redirect">Judy</a> and aunt pick out a dress for Nana, even though the funeral is closed-casket, as they want her to look "nice where she's going". The three debate about which shoes to choose, and while Ross reaches for another shoebox he gets showered in Nana's stolen sweeteners. On the way to the funeral, Chandler exclaims how everyone looks nice "all dressed up", and then realizes it's that kind of thing which makes him seem gay.
</p><p>At the funeral, several incidents happen: Ross falls in an open grave and is given painkillers by his mother Judy; Monica is picked on by her mother at the funeral when Judy advises Monica to start using night cream and leave her hair down as her ears aren't her "best quality"; Joey watches the Giants-Cowboys football game on a portable TV at the reception with the guys, including Jack; Ross gets loopy from all the painkillers at the reception and starts talking loosely to everyone, including Chandler (who's about to hook up with a girl named Andrea) by telling him "if you want to be gay, be gay." The girl turns to her friend and confirms that her suspicions about Chandler being gay were right. Ross confesses his love to Rachel, who thinks he's just blabbing things under the effects of the painkillers, which finally take control over Ross and he ends up unconscious in Rachel's lap.
</p><p>The guys keep reminiscing about Nana at the coffeehouse by browsing through photos of her, and some other photos, including little naked boy Ross. They also find a photo labelled "Me and the gang at Java Joe's" and remark that Nana must have been around their own age when the photo was taken. The friends remark that the people in the photo look like "a fun gang" and then look around at each other fondly.
</p><p>Chandler keeps debating his sexual impression with colleagues, until he confides his thoughts with <a href="/wiki/Lowell" title="Lowell">Lowell</a>, who happens to be gay. Lowell assures him that he's not giving the gay vibe, but also tells him how he could have never gotten a Brian from payroll, as he's "out of his league". Chandler leaves the break room stating that he could get a Brian if he wanted to, greeting Brian, who seems to have overheard bits of the conversation, on his way out. It is also mentioned that Chandler had a friend named Bernie Spellman.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courteney_Cox" title="Courteney Cox">Courteney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Christina_Pickles" title="Christina Pickles">Christina Pickles</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Judy_Geller" title="Judy Geller">Judy Geller</a><br />
<b>Elinor Donahue</b> - <a href="/wiki/Aunt_Lillian" title="Aunt Lillian">Aunt Lillian</a><br />
<b>Nancy Cassaro</b> - <a href="/wiki/Shelly" title="Shelly">Shelly</a><br />
<b>Stuart Fratkin</b> - <a href="/wiki/Lowell" title="Lowell">Lowell</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Elliott_Gould" title="Elliott Gould">Elliott Gould</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Jack_Geller" title="Jack Geller">Jack Geller</a><br />
<b>Carolyn Lowery</b> - Andrea<br />
<b>Marilyn Tokuda</b> - Nana's Nurse<br />
<b>David Sobl</b> - Brian<br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/James_Burrows" title="James Burrows">James Burrows</a><br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Marta_Kauffman" title="Marta Kauffman">Marta Kauffman</a> &amp; <a href="/wiki/David_Crane" title="David Crane">David Crane</a><br />
</p><p><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="General">General</span></h3>
<ul><li>This is the first time that Chandler is teased about people assuming that he is gay, a recurring gag in the show.
</li><li>One of the original names for the coffee house was "Java Joe's". This idea was later reused in this episode, on the picture of Ross and Monica's Nana and her own friends, where Nana wrote, "Me and the gang at Java Joe's."
</li><li>In the uncut DVD version of the episode, there is a scene of Monica picking up a coffin for her Nana with her father, Jack.
</li><li>Joey states that he didn't think Chandler was gay when he first met him, however in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Flashback" title="The One With The Flashback">The One With The Flashback</a>" (S3E6), when Joey first moves in, he says "I'm fine with the whole gay thing," although this could be an attempt to protect Chandler's feelings.
</li><li>In this episode Joey reveals he doesn't believe in an after life. However, he is seen talking to God in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_They_All_Turn_Thirty" title="The One Where They All Turn Thirty">The One Where They All Turn Thirty</a>", and is ordained as a minister in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Truth_About_London" title="The One With The Truth About London">The One With The Truth About London</a>". This leaves his religious views unclear. It is also possible that he changed his mind in the following years.
</li><li>Although Phoebe's job as a massage therapist still hasn't been mentioned, we see her checking out Ross's back spasms after he falls.
</li><li>"The Rachel" haircut makes its debut in this episode. It was an often imitated hairstyle for the next couple of years. Jennifer Aniston said her hairdo was created by accident when her friend cut her hair with a razor.
</li><li><a href="/wiki/Christina_Pickles" title="Christina Pickles">Christina Pickles</a> received an Emmy nomination for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series for her work in this episode.
</li><li>While walking through the cemetery, Chandler mentions that Joey's overcoat sounds like Brent Musburger, a sports anchor on ESPN (and CBS Sports 1973-1990).
</li><li>In the uncut DVD version, Ross confesses his love to Rachel even though she thinks it's because of the pills he's taken, but he then says "I really love you."
<ul><li><a href="/wiki/Judy_Geller" title="Judy Geller">Judy</a> also quotes her mother.
</li><li>Joey also says he has a hearing disability before Jack asks him about the game he's listening to.
</li></ul>
</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs</span></h3>
<p>Monica says she thought Chandler was gay when she first met him but she first met him at Thanksgiving and had a crush on him
</p>
<ul><li>When <a href="/wiki/Nana" title="Nana" class="mw-redirect">Nana</a> is supposedly dead, you can see her breathing and her arm moves slightly.
</li><li>Joey says he didn't think Chandler was gay when they first met, however in a later episode with a flashback of Chandler showing the apartment to Joey, Joey tells Chandler he is "totally okay with the gay thing" meaning he did in fact thing he was gay
</li><li>Rachel states that when she first met Chandler, she thought he might be gay until he spent Phoebe's entire birthday party talking to her breasts. However, it is later revealed in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_All_The_Thanksgivings" title="The One With All The Thanksgivings">The One With All The Thanksgivings</a>" (S5E8) and "<a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_The_Stripper_Cries" title="The One Where The Stripper Cries">The One Where The Stripper Cries</a>" (S10E11) that Rachel has known Chandler since he was in college, and so would not have met him for the first time at Phoebe's birthday party.
<ul><li>Although, it is possible that since they only had a few prior encounters, Rachel didn't really remember him.
</li></ul>
</li><li>When Ross falls in the open grave, there is a lot of mud visible on his knees when he rolls over on to his back. When the camera angle changes to the reactions of his friends and then back to him in the grave, there is no mud at all on his knees.
</li><li>When Ross is helping choose a dress and shoes for Nana, he looks in a shoebox and finds lots of pink Sweet'n Low packets, then pulls down another box and lots of packets fall down on him. However, it is obvious that someone is above him showering the packets down, as they are coming from directly above him, not from on top of the door.
</li><li>When Phoebe says 'what a great day' she starts to put her hand to her face, then in the next shot, her sunglasses have jumped to her hand.
</li><li>When Joey shows Chandler the TV in his pocket, at first he takes it out and is holding it in one hand. In the next shot, he is holding it in both hands.
</li><li>Just before the group of guys at the funeral shout about the football, there is a glass of wine next to Monica's mother which is about 1/3 full. After a brief cut away, the next shot shows the glass is almost empty.
</li><li>When Ross and Monica are visiting their Nana, Ross has his hand on Monica's shoulder. In the next shot it is gone.
</li><li>In the deleted scene included in the uncut DVD version of the episode, when Monica is reading about the cheap casket, in the shot from behind her there is obviously a sticky-note that has been placed in the brochure.
</li><li>When Monica and Ross meet up with their parents at the hospital, a boom mic is visible at the top of the screen.
</li><li>When the scene cuts from Joey and Jack watching the game to several people watching the game, a boom mic is visible at the top of the screen and the camera tilts slightly.
</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Memorable_Quotes">Memorable Quotes</span></h2>
<ul><li><b>Monica</b>: Do you think things would have been better if you'd just told her the truth? <br /><b>Judy</b>: No. I think some things are better left unsaid.
</li><li><b>Chandler</b>: I could get a Brian. If i wanted to get a Brian, I could get a Brian. [Brian enters the pantry] Hey, Brian.
</li></ul>
