---
layout: post 
category: S01 
header-img: nXUlXCPA7Xs 
title: S01E10 -- The One with the Monkey 
oloadid: AONrdslyZME 
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWRTTBhYmJMc0lNN00
--- 
<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One With The Monkey"</b> is the tenth episode of the <a href="/wiki/First_season" title="First season" class="mw-redirect">first season</a> of <i><a href="/wiki/Friends" title="Friends">Friends</a></i>, which aired on <a href="/wiki/NBC" title="NBC">NBC</a> on December 15, 1994.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p>The holidays are coming, and <a href="/wiki/Ross" title="Ross" class="mw-redirect">Ross</a> introduces the guys to his new roommate, <a href="/wiki/Marcel" title="Marcel">Marcel</a> the monkey. Meanwhile, Chandler proposes a no-date New Year's Eve, about which no one is really enthusiastic. In the middle of her "suicidal" performance (apt enough, as twelve of thirteen songs are about her mother's suicide), Phoebe notices two guys, Max and David, whose talking is disrupting her singing. It turns out they were discussing Phoebe's attractiveness and David thinks she is particularly cute, which is enough for her to start dating him.
</p><p>Phoebe wants to bring David to the New Year's party at Monica's, but the guys find it annoying, as this will break the no-date promise. Ironically, Chandler is the first to break the pact by inviting Janice. After talking it out with him, Phoebe gets David to kiss her. Eventually, what with Rachel's boyfriend Paolo catching an earlier flight, Monica inviting Fun Bobby, and Joey hooking up with Sandy, Ross is the only one without a date for the Dick Clark festivity. Max interrupts the group with news--he and David have gotten the grant, full expenses paid, for research in Minsk for three years--and the departure date is January 1. However, David is not sure whether to go because of Phoebe, and when he asks her to decide for him, she makes him stay.
</p><p>At the party, almost everyone is with their dates, but plans are not nearly as good as expected: Joey's date has brought her two children, so that he couldn't kiss her without them watching, and then she ends up with Max; Janice continually exhibits the features that made Chandler dump her in the first place; Paolo misses his flight and Rachel is beaten up by a woman; following his grandfather's very recent death, Fun Bobby is far from fun; and Ross brings Marcel but the monkey ditches him. Just as Phoebe's night promises to be a good one, Max reveals to David how despite David's decision to stay, he's still going to Minsk. Broken-heartedly, Phoebe tells David she believes he belongs in Minsk, and he'll have to go to fulfill his career. David doesn't know how to break up with her, so she has to teach him that, too. David does, however, promise her that he won't forget her, and that he loves her. Phoebe replies that she will miss him.
</p><p>The friends find themselves keeping the promise they all strove hard to break--each is alone at the start of the new year. Nobody is in the mood to kiss anyone, but Chandler is moaning that he has no one to kiss and Joey kisses him to shut him up.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courteney_Cox" title="Courteney Cox">Courteney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Hank_Azaria" title="Hank Azaria">Hank Azaria</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/David" title="David">David</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Vincent_Ventresca" title="Vincent Ventresca">Vincent Ventresca</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Fun_Bobby" title="Fun Bobby">Fun Bobby</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Wayne_P%C3%A9re?action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="Wayne Pére (page does not exist)">Wayne Pére</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Max" title="Max">Max</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Sarah_MacDonnell?action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="Sarah MacDonnell (page does not exist)">Sarah MacDonnell</a></b> - Sandy<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Maggie_Wheeler" title="Maggie Wheeler">Maggie Wheeler</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Janice_Hosenstein" title="Janice Hosenstein" class="mw-redirect">Janice Hosenstein</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Dick_Clark" title="Dick Clark">Dick Clark</a></b> - Himself (uncredited)<br />
<b>Katie</b> - <a href="/wiki/Marcel" title="Marcel">Marcel</a> the Monkey (uncredited)<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/James_Michael_Tyler" title="James Michael Tyler">James Michael Tyler</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Gunther" title="Gunther">Gunther</a> (uncredited)<br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br />
<a href="/wiki/Peter_Bonerz" title="Peter Bonerz">Peter Bonerz</a><br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br />
<a href="/wiki/Adam_Chase" title="Adam Chase">Adam Chase</a> &amp; <a href="/wiki/Ira_Ungerleider" title="Ira Ungerleider">Ira Ungerleider</a><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="General">General</span></h3>
<ul><li>This is the first appearance of <a href="/wiki/Fun_Bobby" title="Fun Bobby">Fun Bobby</a> and <a href="/wiki/David" title="David">David</a> in the series.
</li><li>This is also the first appearance of <a href="/wiki/Ross" title="Ross" class="mw-redirect">Ross's</a> monkey, <a href="/wiki/Marcel" title="Marcel">Marcel</a>.
</li><li>This is one of two New Year's Eve parties the gang host; the second takes place during "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_All_The_Resolutions" title="The One With All The Resolutions">The One With All The Resolutions</a>" (S5E11)
</li><li>The song that plays during the party is "Shiny Happy People" (1991) by R.E.M.
</li><li>This is the first time in the series that <a href="/wiki/Chandler" title="Chandler" class="mw-redirect">Chandler</a> reunites with <a href="/wiki/Janice" title="Janice" class="mw-redirect">Janice</a>. They later briefly reunite in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Candy_Hearts" title="The One With The Candy Hearts">The One With The Candy Hearts</a>" (S1E14), and start a relationship in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Barry_And_Mindy%27s_Wedding" title="The One With Barry And Mindy's Wedding">The One With Barry And Mindy's Wedding</a>" (S2E24).
</li><li>This episode is the first to feature a shot of a kiss between two same-sex people (Chandler and <a href="/wiki/Joey" title="Joey" class="mw-redirect">Joey</a>).
<ul><li>The first episode to feature a shot of a kiss between two women is "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Ross%27_Wedding,_Part_1" title="The One With Ross' Wedding, Part 1" class="mw-redirect">The One With Ross' Wedding, Part 1</a>" (S4E23), where <a href="/wiki/Monica" title="Monica" class="mw-redirect">Monica</a> and <a href="/wiki/Phoebe" title="Phoebe" class="mw-redirect">Phoebe</a> have a quick peck on the lips. The first full-lipped girl-girl kiss takes place in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Rachel%27s_Big_Kiss" title="The One With Rachel's Big Kiss">The One With Rachel's Big Kiss</a>" (S7E20), where <a href="/wiki/Rachel" title="Rachel" class="mw-redirect">Rachel</a> kisses Melissa (guest star <a href="/wiki/Winona_Ryder" title="Winona Ryder">Winona Ryder</a>).
</li></ul>
</li><li>Max says that Minsk is in Russia but is actually in Belarus. However, Minsk only officially became the capital of the Republic of Belarus in 1991, and the episode takes place on December 31, 1994, three years later. So it is possible Max was confused when he said that Minsk is in Russia.
<ul><li>However, Phoebe also implied that Minsk was in Russia when she said "I know" in response to Max, and later throughout the series, multiple people say the same thing.
</li><li>When the writers were in school, Minsk was in the Soviet Union, for which Russia was a synonym. Many things changed when the USSR dissolved in December 1991.
</li></ul>
</li><li> Chandler mentions getting bitten by a peacock, which was first mentioned by Phoebe in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Blackout" title="The One With The Blackout">The One With The Blackout</a>" (S1E7).
</li><li> At the Party Max refers to Phoebe as 'Yoko', this is a reference to John Lennon's wife Yoko Ono who many blame to have come between The Beatles, causing them to break up.
</li><li>In this episode, Phoebe and Chandler are seen decorating Monica's tree, but in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Routine" title="The One With The Routine">The One With The Routine</a>" (S6E10), Ross suggests that Monica never lets people help decorate her tree when he says "Wow, Monica's letting other people help decorate her tree! Did someone get her drunk again?"
</li><li>Max tells Phoebe that the trip to Minsk is for three years; however David doesn't resurface until much later in the series.
</li><li>In the uncut DVD version of the episode, extra scenes during the party include Monica and Phoebe helping Rachel get ready for the party in her bedroom, <span style="font-size:14px;">Monica telling Fun Bobby she knows how he feels about losing a grandparent but asking him to stop dragging the party down, and</span><span style="font-size:14px;"> Rachel trying to start a conversation with a guy at the party and spitting her wine due to her fat lip.</span>
</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Memorable_Quotes">Memorable Quotes</span></h2>
<ul><li>[Ross enters the room with a monkey on his shoulder]<br /><b>Chandler</b>: Look, that monkey's got a Ross on his ass.
</li><li>[Joey enters the room while wearing an elf's costume]<br /><b>Chandler</b>: Too many jokes! Must...mock...Joey!
</li><li><b>Ross</b>: It's hard to accept that something that you love so much doesn't love you back.
</li></ul>
