---
layout: post 
category: S01 
header-img: 38yH0jg7Cmc 
title: S01E11 -- The One with Mrs. Bing 
oloadid: GOLEeITZvBU 
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWROU8tZzc2VTBiSWc
--- 
<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One With Mrs. Bing"</b> is the eleventh episode of the <a href="/wiki/First_season" title="First season" class="mw-redirect">first season</a> of <i><a href="/wiki/Friends" title="Friends">Friends</a></i>, which aired on January 5, 1995.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p>Phoebe incites Monica to whistle at a cute guy they see walking on the street. He turns and doesn't see an ambulance, which hits him and knocks him into a coma. The two try to make it up to him by taking extreme care of him, even as they fantasize about him as the most charming of guys. The game of 'who cares for the coma guy the most' reaches obsessive levels, with the two girls unable to spend a minute away from him, until the guy wakes from the coma. The girls explain how they've been taking care of him, but his less-than-grateful attitude turns them to ice and they ditch him.
</p><p>Chandler's mother, <a href="/wiki/Nora_Tyler_Bing" title="Nora Tyler Bing">Nora Tyler Bing</a>, is the guest on <i>The Tonight Show with Jay Leno</i>, which Chandler is uncomfortable watching due to his mother's more-than-embarrassing remarks. He does, however, learn that she's dropping by to visit him. Meanwhile, Paolo arrives from abroad too, much to Ross' displeasure. At a Mexican restaurant, the friends have dinner with Mrs. Bing. Rachel and Paolo show up late, as they were fooling around and lost track of time. Ross turns to tequila shots to numb the pain. He talks of his problem with Mrs. Bing, who seems understanding enough, but the combination of the alcohol and Mrs. Bing's animal magnetism lead to a kiss between the two. Unluckily for Ross, Joey witnesses the kiss.
</p><p>Ross tries to explain everything to Joey, who is mad at Ross for "breaking the code (of never kissing a friend's mom)" and also for not thinking that <a href="/wiki/Gloria_Tribbiani" title="Gloria Tribbiani">his mom</a> is as attractive as Mrs. Bing. Eventually, Ross tries to lie to Chandler, saying that Paolo kissed his mom. He can't pull the lie off and ends up confessing everything. Unsurprisingly, Chandler gets mad at Ross and remains angry at him for some time, until he gets the courage to face his mother, after which he makes his peace with Ross' incident.
</p><p>Rachel, a big admirer of Nora's works, tries to imitate her idol by writing her own book, but, as it turns out, she's not a very good typist. This leads the gang to mock her failed attempts at being sexy.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courtney_Cox" title="Courtney Cox" class="mw-redirect">Courtney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p><p><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Morgan_Fairchild" title="Morgan Fairchild">Morgan Fairchild</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Nora_Tyler_Bing" title="Nora Tyler Bing">Nora Tyler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Cosimo_Fusco" title="Cosimo Fusco">Cosimo Fusco</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Paolo" title="Paolo">Paolo</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Sederholm?action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="David Sederholm (page does not exist)">David Sederholm</a></b> - Coma Guy<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Jay_Leno" title="Jay Leno">Jay Leno</a></b> - Himself<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/James_Michael_Tyler" title="James Michael Tyler">James Michael Tyler</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Gunther" title="Gunther">Gunther</a> (uncredited)<br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/James_Burrows" title="James Burrows">James Burrows</a><br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Alexa_Junge" title="Alexa Junge">Alexa Junge</a><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="General">General</span></h3>
<ul><li>This is the first appearance of <a href="/wiki/Nora_Tyler_Bing" title="Nora Tyler Bing">Nora Tyler Bing</a> in the series.
</li><li>Chandler mentions that he considers his mother to be a "Freudian nightmare". Sigmund Freud was a famous neurologist known as the father of psychoanalysis. Joey previously acted in the play "Freud!" in the episode "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Butt" title="The One With The Butt">The One With The Butt</a>" (S1E6)
</li><li>Rather than watch his mother on TV, Chandler reminds the group that <i>Weekend at Bernie's</i> (1989) is playing on several cable TV channels. It is later revealed in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Embryos" title="The One With The Embryos">The One With The Embryos</a>", during <a href="/wiki/The_Contest" title="The Contest">The Contest</a>, that <i>Weekend at Bernie's </i>is <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel</a>'s favorite movie.
</li><li>At the beginning of the episode, as <a href="/wiki/Monica" title="Monica" class="mw-redirect">Monica</a> and <a href="/wiki/Phoebe" title="Phoebe" class="mw-redirect">Phoebe</a> are walking down the street, <a href="/wiki/Joey" title="Joey" class="mw-redirect">Joey's</a> "VD" poster from "<a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_Underdog_Gets_Away" title="The One Where Underdog Gets Away">The One Where Underdog Gets Away</a>" (S1E9) can be seen in the background.
</li><li><a href="/wiki/Rachel" title="Rachel" class="mw-redirect">Rachel's</a> middle name, Karen, is revealed in this episode.
</li><li>The song that plays when Monica and Phoebe are visiting the man in the coma is "My Guy" (1964) by Mary Wells.
</li><li>Joey explains the "never kiss a friend's mom" code to <a href="/wiki/Ross" title="Ross" class="mw-redirect">Ross</a> by saying that kissing sisters is okay. However, Joey gets mad at <a href="/wiki/Chandler" title="Chandler" class="mw-redirect">Chandler</a> for fooling around with his sister in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_Chandler_Can%27t_Remember_Which_Sister" title="The One Where Chandler Can't Remember Which Sister">The One Where Chandler Can't Remember Which Sister</a>" (S3E11), and also kisses <a href="/wiki/Sandra_Green" title="Sandra Green">Rachel's mother</a> in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Two_Parties" title="The One With Two Parties" class="mw-redirect">The One With Two Parties</a>" (S2E22). Although, Joey is probably mad at Chandler because a drunk Chandler professed his love and then took it back, thus hurting Joey's sister.
</li><li>This is the first time Ross is seen drunk in the series.
</li><li>As Joey reveals to Ross from pictures, his mother was pregnant when she got married.
</li><li>Rachel reveals her passion for erotic literature, which is later referenced in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Rachel%27s_Book" title="The One With Rachel's Book">The One With Rachel's Book</a>" (S7E2).
</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs</span></h3>
<ul><li>When the gang is watching Chandler's mother on TV, Joey says: "Come on. She's your mom.". At this moment, Chandler is with both hands in his head. Instantly, in the next scene his hands are on waist.
</li><li>In regards to his mother, Joey asks Ross "you think it's easy giving birth to seven kids?". However, it is stated numerous times that Joey has seven sisters, meaning that Joey's mother would have given birth to eight children, including Joey. It is possible however, that due to Joey's low intelligence, he made a mistake.
</li><li>When the gang is eating at the restaurant and Nora is telling Rachel how to write a book, the amount of food on Rachel's plate changes between shots without her touching it.
</li><li>In the montage where Monica and Phoebe are taking care of the guy in the coma, Monica is shown to knit a sweater and give it to the coma guy; however, a sweater is a long-term knitting project that could not possibly be finished in such a short period. On the other hand, Monica is shown to be a knitter before this episode, so perhaps she was already working on a sweater. 
</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Memorable_Quotes">Memorable Quotes</span></h2>
<ul><li><b>Monica</b>: [Calling Phoebe's attention to a cute guy] Behind you there's a guy who can break our hearts and plunge us into a pit of depression.
</li><li><b>Monica</b>: I wish at least we knew his name.<br /><b>Phoebe</b>: I know, I hate that they are calling him John Doe. It's so sad. It's like he's a deer, a female deer.
</li><li><b>Chandler</b>: Are there no conscious men in the city for you two?
</li><li><b>Ross</b>: When did 'Riga Tony' (rigatoni) get back from Rome?
</li><li><b>Phoebe</b>: What about Glenn? He could be a Glenn.<br /><b>Monica</b>: Not special enough.<br /><b>Phoebe</b>: Ooh, how about Agamemnon?<br /><b>Monica</b>: <i>Way</i> too special.
</li><li><b>Joey</b>: Okay, no big deal...<i>in bizarro world!</i>
</li><li><b>Ross</b>: I was upset about Rachel and I had too much tequila, and Nora--erm, Mrs. Mom--your Bing--was being nice.
</li><li><b>Phoebe</b>: You know what, we thought you were different, but I guess, it's just the coma.
</li></ul> 
