---
title: S01E19 -- The One Where the Monkey Gets Away
layout: post
category: S01
header-img: IuNiFnoQevA
oloadid: EVzr2WSWTYQ
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWRZ1JYdjJkR0FKdU0
---

<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One Where The Monkey Gets Away"</b> is the nineteenth episode of the <a href="/wiki/First_season" title="First season" class="mw-redirect">first season</a> of <i><a href="/wiki/Friends" title="Friends">Friends</a></i>, which aired on on March 9, 1995.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p><a href="/wiki/Rachel" title="Rachel" class="mw-redirect">Rachel</a> gets to know that her ex-fiancé, <a href="/wiki/Barry" title="Barry" class="mw-redirect">Barry</a>, is marrying her best friend <a href="/wiki/Mindy" title="Mindy" class="mw-redirect">Mindy</a>. This starts sprouting doubts in her whether she made the right decision breaking up with him.
</p><p><a href="/wiki/Ross" title="Ross" class="mw-redirect">Ross</a> leaves Marcel with Rachel the next day, but he gets away as Rachel takes out Marcel's poop. She gets everyone looking for him before Ross finds out. At the same time, Ross is planning to tell Rachel of his feelings. When he tries to do so, Rachel is in no mood to talk about such matters, as she's worried to death about the monkey's getaway. Ross gets to know that Marcel has gotten away. He's furious with Rachel for losing the monkey, and gets even madder when she tells him she called Animal Control to look for him. He points out that as Marcel is an illegal exotic, they'll take the monkey away from him as soon as they find him.
</p><p>The Animal Control personnel turns out to be <a href="/wiki/Luisa" title="Luisa">Luisa</a>, an old acquaintance of Monica and Rachel, as they used to share a common room in high school. Unluckily, Luisa also remembers the hard times she had to get through by Rachel the prom queen (Monica, being fat, had her own problems and couldn't help Luisa out). Because of this, Luisa decides to confiscate the animal instead of helping her old schoolmates out.
</p><p>The friends' search for the monkey does not go well - <a href="/wiki/Joey" title="Joey" class="mw-redirect">Joey</a> and <a href="/wiki/Chandler" title="Chandler" class="mw-redirect">Chandler</a> lose the chance to hang out with two beautiful hot women in the building. Meanwhile, <a href="/wiki/Phoebe" title="Phoebe" class="mw-redirect">Phoebe</a> and <a href="/wiki/Monica" title="Monica" class="mw-redirect">Monica</a> manage to find Marcel in the basement. At the same time, Luisa finds the monkey too, and fires a tranquillizing dart in his direction. Phoebe intercepts the dart, which hits her in the butt, letting Marcel escape again.
</p><p>Ross and Rachel, still arguing about the monkey's getaway, decide to search the one apartment they haven't looked at yet - Heckles'. Heckles (who has been previously shown to have an extremely possessive nature) turns out to have captured Marcel, and dresses him up in a pink tutu to disguise him. Ross and the friends, however, know that it's Marcel, but just as they are to get him back, Luisa reappears and captures Marcel in a cage. Having to acknowledge the fact that compromise with Luisa won't work amicably, Rachel resorts to blackmailing her by reporting her shooting a human with a tranquillizer dart, which makes Luisa relinquish Marcel to Ross.
</p><p>Ross, who has forgiven Rachel for her carelessness with Marcel, tries to resume the conversation about his feelings. Just as he's about to tell her, Barry walks in on them. He tells Rachel that he's still in love with her and can't marry Mindy because of this.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courteney_Cox" title="Courteney Cox">Courteney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Mitchell_Whitfield" title="Mitchell Whitfield">Mitchell Whitfield</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Barry_Farber" title="Barry Farber">Barry Farber</a><br />
<b>Megan Cavanagh</b> - <a href="/wiki/Luisa" title="Luisa">Luisa</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Larry_Hankin" title="Larry Hankin">Larry Hankin</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Mr._Heckles" title="Mr. Heckles">Mr. Heckles</a><br />
<b>Angela Vissr</b> - Samantha<br />
<b>Elizabeth Sjoli</b> - Tia<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/James_Michael_Tyler" title="James Michael Tyler">James Michael Tyler</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Gunther" title="Gunther">Gunther</a> (uncredited)<br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Peter_Bonerz" title="Peter Bonerz">Peter Bonerz</a><br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Jeff_Astrof" title="Jeff Astrof">Jeff Astrof</a> &amp; <a href="/wiki/Mike_Sikowitz" title="Mike Sikowitz">Mike Sikowitz</a><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<ul><li>In the uncut DVD version of the episode, <a href="/wiki/Joey" title="Joey" class="mw-redirect">Joey</a> asks <a href="/wiki/Mr._Heckles" title="Mr. Heckles">Mr. Heckles</a> if he can have his butt-magnifying glass, which Joey later takes for himself in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_Heckles_Dies" title="The One Where Heckles Dies">The One Where Heckles Dies</a>" (S2E3).
</li><li> While Marcel and Rachel are watching a TV program, Rachel mentions someone named Dexter. Dexter is a character in the <i>Night at the Museum</i> franchise who, like Marcel, is a Capuchin monkey.
</li><li>Mr. Heckles dresses <a href="/wiki/Marcel" title="Marcel">Marcel</a> in a pink tutu. The monkey that plays Marcel is in fact a female monkey named Katie.
</li><li>It is revealed that Rachel was the prom queen, homecoming queen, and class president at Lincoln High School, and that their mascot was the bobcat.
</li><li>This is the first time Chandler mentions that he went to an all-male boarding school.
</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs</span></h3>
<ul><li>When Monica checks the magazine she folds it, but when she says "lucky" it's not folded anymore.
</li><li>In the cold open, when Rachel is listing the types of teas Central Perk has in stock, her hand gestures differ between instantly changing shots multiple times.
</li><li>When Monica suggests they start looking for Marcel in the building, she tells Joey and Chandler to search the first and second floors, while her and Phoebe search the third and fourth, yet the next scene shows Monica and Phoebe downstairs knocking on Mr. Heckles door. 
</li><li>After Marcel has escaped from the basement, he is seen eating a banana as a pair of arms reach out to grab him. These arms are supposed to belong to Mr Heckles, their weird neighbor, however the arms clearly belong to a young, large and hair free person.
</li></ul>
