---
title: S01E18 -- The One with All the Poker
layout: post
category: S01
header-img: Gvg4ybqxGi0
oloadid: c4RQCQDKNhA
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWRV3QxSmJoYWtqSjA
---

<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One With All The Poker"</b> is the eighteenth episode of the <a href="/wiki/First_season" title="First season" class="mw-redirect">first season</a> of <i><a href="/wiki/Friends" title="Friends">Friends</a></i>, which aired on March 2, 1995.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p>The guys teach poker (Five-card draw) to the girls, who lose spectacularly. They ask Monica's aunt, <a href="/wiki/Aunt_Iris" title="Aunt Iris">Iris</a>, a professional poker player, for help, which makes them improve, albeit slightly, their poker skills. The girls keep playing the guys in the hope of winning one over them.
</p><p>Tired of serving coffee at Central Perk and being called "excuse me" by people, <a href="/wiki/Rachel" title="Rachel" class="mw-redirect">Rachel</a> sends out résumés for job opportunities. She gets an interview at Saks, Fifth Avenue, about a vacancy as a buyer's assistant.
</p><p><a href="/wiki/Ross" title="Ross" class="mw-redirect">Ross</a> picks up an old subject with <a href="/wiki/Chandler" title="Chandler" class="mw-redirect">Chandler</a> and <a href="/wiki/Joey" title="Joey" class="mw-redirect">Joey</a> - his love for Rachel. Ross tries to deny his feelings for Rachel, but the guys are skeptical about this. Determined to prove them wrong, he gets unusually hard on Rachel during the poker games. The two keep on bickering during a poker game, where things start to go well for Rachel when she wins a hand on Ross. In the middle of a dealt hand, she receives a call from Saks informing her that she hasn't been picked out for the job.
</p><p>Instead of abandoning the game, she decides to take it out on Ross, raising the bets over the limit and making everyone fold. Ross decides to fold too, but she reminds him of his comments about not being a nice guy during poker, so he sits out the rest of the hand. The bets keep rising through the roof, and Rachel wins with a full house. Even though Ross accepts the defeat, realizing that it made Rachel happy during a difficult moment, some watchers may think that he had a better hand, and lost to make Rachel happy. Unluckily for him, Joey and Chandler now definitely confirm that he's in love with Rachel.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courteney_Cox" title="Courteney Cox">Courteney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Beverly_Garland?action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="Beverly Garland (page does not exist)">Beverly Garland</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Aunt_Iris" title="Aunt Iris">Aunt Iris</a>
</p><p><b><a href="/wiki/James_Michael_Tyler" title="James Michael Tyler">James Michael Tyler</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Gunther" title="Gunther">Gunther</a> (uncredited)<br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/James_Burrows" title="James Burrows">James Burrows</a><br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Jeff_Astrof" title="Jeff Astrof">Jeff Astrof</a> &amp; <a href="/wiki/Mike_Sikowitz" title="Mike Sikowitz">Mike Sikowitz</a><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="General">General</span></h3>
<ul><li>During the final poker game, the camera looks down from the ceiling onto <a href="/wiki/Monica" title="Monica" class="mw-redirect">Monica's</a> kitchen table, a shot which is never used again in the series.
</li><li>The gang later sing "The Lion Sleeps Tonight" to <a href="/wiki/Marcel" title="Marcel">Marcel</a> in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_After_The_Superbowl,_Part_1" title="The One After The Superbowl, Part 1">The One After The Superbowl, Part 1</a>" (S2E12).
</li><li>The song the gang whistle at the beginning of the episode is a march called "Colonel Bogey".
</li><li><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a> described this episode as one of her favorite moments on the show in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_All_The_Other_Ones" title="The One With All The Other Ones">The One With All The Other Ones</a>".
</li><li><a href="/wiki/Ross" title="Ross" class="mw-redirect">Ross's</a> hand was either a Four of a Kind, a Straight Flush, or a Royal Flush to have beaten a Full House (or a higher rated Full House).
</li><li>It is revealed that Monica once threw a plate during a game of Pictionary. <span style="font-size:14px;">In "</span><a href="/wiki/The_One_In_Barbados,_Part_2" title="The One In Barbados, Part 2">The One In Barbados, Part 2</a><span style="font-size:14px;">" (S9E24), <a href="/wiki/Chandler" title="Chandler" class="mw-redirect">Chandler</a> refers to a scar that he claims he got during a game of Pictionary.</span>
</li><li>This is the first time <a href="/wiki/Rachel" title="Rachel" class="mw-redirect">Rachel</a> tries to get a job in the fashion industry. Until "<a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_Rachel_Quits" title="The One Where Rachel Quits">The One Where Rachel Quits</a>" (S3E10), this would also be the last time.
</li><li>You can see Ross' hand before the redraw. He has 3♣ 6♣ Q♣ <span style="color:red">K♥</span> and an unknown card off screen. Given the fact that he only trades in one card, it is actually impossible for him to beat any full house (he would need a straight flush, four of a kind or a superior full house). This could mean that the prop people messed up and meant for Ross to have a Straight Flush with the 3♣ and 6♣ or a full house. So rather than letting Rachel win, Ross had a losing hand all along!
</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs</span></h3>
<ul><li>When the gang are sitting around the table in Monica's apartment playing poker, Monica is making something to eat. When she puts it on the table and sits back, we can see a pile of plates on the table on her right side. But in the next shot, the plates are gone.
</li><li>After everybody folds and Rachel wins her second on-screen poker hand, she starts to deal while Phoebe is still holding her cards from the previous game.
</li><li>Just after Ross folds his hand to Rachel in the final game, his wallet disappears from the table instantly in between shots, as well as Monica's wallet switching from Rachel's right side to her left.
</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Memorable_Quotes">Memorable Quotes</span></h2>
<ul><li><b>Monica</b>: Do you really want a job with <i>Popular Mechanics</i>?<br /><b>Chandler</b>: Well, if you're going to work for mechanics, those are the ones to work for.
</li><li><b>Chandler</b>: Could you want her more?<br /><b>Ross</b>: Who?<br /><b>Chandler</b>: Dee, the sarcastic sister from <i>What's Happening</i>.
</li><li><b>Rachel</b>: How come you guys have never played poker with us?<br /><b>Phoebe</b>: Yeah, what is that, like some kind of guy thing? Like some kind of sexist guy thing? Like it's poker, so only guys can play?<br /><b>Ross</b>: No, women are welcome to play.<br /><b>Phoebe</b>: Oh, okay, so then what is it? Some kind of, you know, like some kind of, you know, like... All right, what is it?
</li><li> <b>Monica</b>: He can get really competitive.<br />[Phoebe laughs.]<br /><b>Monica</b>: What?<br /><b>Phoebe</b> [on imaginary phone]: Hello, kettle? This is Monica. You're black.
</li><li><b>Rachel</b>: Guys! Guess what? Guess what? Guess what?<br /><b>Chandler</b>: Okay, uh... The fifth dentist caved and now they're all recommending Trident?
</li><li><b>Rachel</b>: And then she told the funniest story...<br /><b>Monica</b>: Okay, great. You'll tell us and we'll laugh. Let's play poker!
</li><li><b>Rachel</b>: It's so typical. Ooh, I am a man. Ooh, I have a penis. Ooh, I have to win money to exert my power over women.<br /><b>Monica</b>: You know what? This is not over. We will play you again, and we will win, and you will lose, and you will beg, and we will laugh, and we will take every last dime you have, and you will hate yourselves forever.<br /><b>Rachel</b>: Kinda stepped on my point, there, Mon.
</li><li><b>Ross</b>: Your money's mine, Green!<br /><b>Rachel</b>: Your fly is open, Geller!
</li><li><b>Monica </b>[after Joey guesses movie name]&#160;:You get that?
</li></ul>
