---
layout: post 
category: S02 
header-img: Iqn6MdGYwLE 
title: S02E08 -- The One With the List 
oloadid: ZZ1-Zonr4jw 
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWRRHducDNVX3NLbWc 
--- 
<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One With The List"</b> is the eighth episode of the <a href="/wiki/Second_season" title="Second season" class="mw-redirect">second season</a> of <i>Friends</i>, which aired on November 16, 1995. This episode serves as the Thanksgiving episode of the year, but deviates from the tradition of the bottle episode focused on the six main characters.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p>Rachel and Ross tell the girls and the guys respectively of their kiss. Rachel thinks it was absolutely amazing, whilst Ross is still torn between her and Julie. Chandler tries to help him out with choosing one of Rachel and Julie by printing a list of flaws each of them have from his new computer. Ross lists every flaw he could think of Rachel - describing her as "spoiled, ditzy, too into her looks, and just a waitress" - but when he comes to Julie, all he can manage is: "She's not Rachel". Chandler doesn't manage to print the list and phones the computer company to complain.
</p><p>Monica has a job interview, for which she has to produce a number of recipes using Mockolate, a synthetic chocolate substitute which they hope to capitalise for Thanksgiving. Monica finds difficulty integrating the disgusting ingredient in good recipes, but she tries anyway. This fails as Rachel and Phoebe throw up from eating the Mockolate, and Phoebe describes it as "what evil must taste like." Monica presents her recipes to the interviewer, who sadly informs her that the FDA approval for Mockolate didn't arrive, but gives her a check for her efforts anyway. He does, however, ask her if she experienced any side effects from eating Mockolate, including any burning sensation during peeing.
</p><p>Ross manages to break up with Julie, having set his heart on Rachel. Rachel enters and asks Ross what's happening. With Joey's help, Ross finally gets with Rachel. He goes to grab her coat, but Rachel sees the list on the computer, but does not know what it was. Even worse, after several useless attempts, the printer manages to spit out the list. Rachel manages to obtain the list from the guys and reads her flaws out. Devastated and hurt, she demands an explanation from Ross, who can't seem to put words together to explain everything to her, and when she reads Julie's flaws ("She's not Rachem" - a typographical error by Chandler), she thinks Ross is making fun of her for being just a waitress,
</p><p>Ross tries several more times to try and apologize to Rachel, climbing up the fire escape in the pouring rain to read her pros list, but she doesn't want to hear a word. Ross tells her that if it were her who made the list, nothing she could write would stop him from wanting to be with her. She replies that she would have never be so cruel as to make such a list, which she guesses is the difference between her and him. Ross dedicates a song to Rachel over the radio in a last desperate attempt at apologizing, but Rachel calls the radio station to tell the DJ what Ross did. This causes the DJ to stop playing Ross' song halfway, describing Ross' action "pretty appalling."
</p><p>Monica meets her interviewer again, this time to be introduced to Fishtachios - pistachios of reconstituted fish bits. The interviewer asks if she's allergic to anything, and when Monica mentions her allergy to cat hair he decides she shouldn't try any.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Courtney_Cox" title="Courtney Cox" class="mw-redirect">Courtney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a>
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Michael_McKean?action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="Michael McKean (page does not exist)">Michael McKean</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Mr._Rastatter" title="Mr. Rastatter">Mr. Rastatter</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/James_Michael_Tyler" title="James Michael Tyler">James Michael Tyler</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Gunther" title="Gunther">Gunther</a> uncredited<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lauren_Tom" title="Lauren Tom">Lauren Tom</a></b>- <a href="/wiki/Julie" title="Julie">Julie</a><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Mary_Kay_Place" title="Mary Kay Place">Mary Kay Place</a><br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/David_Crane" title="David Crane">David Crane</a> &amp; <a href="/wiki/Marta_Kauffman" title="Marta Kauffman">Marta Kauffman</a><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="General">General</span></h3>
<ul><li>NBC told the show producers they wanted all the Thursday shows to have a Thanksgiving episode. The writers added the <a href="/wiki/Mockolate" title="Mockolate">Mockolate</a> storyline to meet the Thanksgiving guidelines, where Monica tries to incorporate Mockolate in Thanksgiving recipes.
<ul><li>Ironically, this is the only <i>Friends</i> season not to feature a dedicated Thanksgiving episode.
</li></ul>
</li><li>A break up scene was written for Ross and Julie. The writers decided not to use it because they feared the audience would side with Ross and Julie rather than with Ross and Rachel.
</li><li>When playing a song after Ross' desperate song dedication, the radio DJ says: "Avery, Michelle's sorry she hit you with her car." Avery Michelle is <a href="/wiki/Marta_Kauffman" title="Marta Kauffman">Marta Kauffman</a>'s goddaughter. Allegedly, her parents are the source of inspiration for the characters of <a href="/wiki/Carol" title="Carol" class="mw-redirect">Carol</a> and <a href="/wiki/Susan" title="Susan" class="mw-redirect">Susan</a>.
</li><li>This episode marks the first time that Ross breaks up with his (current) girlfriend, in order to be with Rachel (In this case its Julie). In "The One With the Jellyfish", he breaks up with Bonnie. However in both instances, Ross and Rachel end up arguing and they don't get together anyway.
</li><li>The song Ross requests the DJ plays is <i>With or Without You</i> by U2. This is also the song played when Ross cheats on Rachel with Chloe in <a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_Ross_%26_Rachel_Take_A_Break" title="The One Where Ross &amp; Rachel Take A Break" class="mw-redirect">The One Where Ross &amp; Rachel Take A Break</a>.
</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs</span></h3>
<ul><li>Ross asks her to read Julie's flaws from the back of the paper. However, in previous shots, the back of the paper is clearly shown to be blank. Though the line is ambiguous and he could be referring to another column on the front of the page.
</li></ul>
