---
layout: post 
category: S02 
header-img: qr_21fmFn7k 
title: S02E03 -- The One Where Heckles Dies 
oloadid: oW5XFMz0cTg 
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWRemM0Vi1ZQmIyWHM 
--- 
<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One Where Heckles Dies"</b> is the third episode of the <a href="/wiki/Second_season" title="Second season" class="mw-redirect">second season</a> of <i>Friends</i>, which aired on <a href="/wiki/NBC" title="NBC">NBC</a> on October 5, 1995.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p><a href="/wiki/Chandler" title="Chandler" class="mw-redirect">Chandler</a> tells the other five that he's broken up with his girlfriend, claiming that he found her nostrils too big. The guys find it bad that he breaks up with girls over the most superficial things. Rachel and Monica's downstairs neighbor <a href="/wiki/Mr._Heckles" title="Mr. Heckles">Mr. Heckles</a> knocks at the door to tell them to quiet down (although the guys are perfectly decent in volume). After they send him away, he begins to knock at their floor from his ceiling with his broom, to which they respond by stamping on the floor. After a little time, he stops hitting with the broom - in fact, he stops doing pretty much anything, as he's found dead.
</p><p>Everyone scoffs at Phoebe when she yells at Mr. Heckles' soul, but when she brings up the evolution theory as one of the things she doesn't believe, Ross takes it on a personal level. She keeps badgering him with questions to which he gives abundantly detailed answers, but she still won't believe him. Meanwhile, Heckles' attorney shows up and executes his will, which basically entitles all of his material stuff to the girls.
</p><p>Most, if not all of this stuff, is trashy toys and furniture which Monica finds tacky, but which Rachel adores. The two raise an issue of whose apartment they live in - Monica still believes it's her apartment, while Rachel thinks that it's become hers too and starts to decorate it with a seashell lamp of Heckles'. However, Chandler starts looking through some books and realizes how much in common he and Heckles have, which starts to freak him out. The more he reads, the more Chandler bums on this, until he arrives to the point where he thinks he and Heckles are the same person, especially after finding a "Big Book of Grievances" containing all of Heckles' dates and the stupid reasons for which he broke up with them.
</p><p>Ross comes over with a briefcase of fossils to show to Phoebe, but she doesn't even let him start. This time, she brings up an argument which Ross doesn't know how to face, and when he can't give her an answer, she thinks he's a hypocrite for caving in his beliefs. He leaves, unaware that all of this is just a ruse of Phoebe's to freak him out about his area of knowledge. Just as the girls are to go out, Monica breaks Rachel's new lamp, making Rachel think it's Monica's revenge.
</p><p>Totally frightened of ending up alone like Heckles, Chandler calls <a href="/wiki/Janice" title="Janice" class="mw-redirect">Janice</a> in desperation, but when she meets him at the coffeehouse, it's a married Janice, and to cap it all, she's pregnant. Due to this, Chandler can't get back with her, but the girls make him realize how he's growing up and becoming ready for a commitment, to which he replies with a shocked: "Whoa, don't know about that!"
</p><p>As the friends clear the last of Heckles' possessions out of his room, Monica makes up with Rachel by giving her the girly clock she wanted from Heckles' apartment. Chandler comes into the room to announce that he has asked out a girl whom he initially avoided because of her large head, saying he won't let those things bother him anymore, and decides to keep Heckles' yearbook, as they share something in common. The friends seem to have sympathy for their late elderly neighbor and after the other five have left, Chandler takes one last look around his empty room, leaves his broom by the door, and says "Goodbye, Mr Heckles...we'll try to keep it down".
</p><p>While on a date the next day, Chandler realizes that at the end of the day, he's still Chandler - as he can't stop freaking out about his date Alison's big head. However, strangely, he finds himself not only intimidated by her big head size, but also liking it.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courtney_Cox" title="Courtney Cox" class="mw-redirect">Courtney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Larry_Hankin" title="Larry Hankin">Larry Hankin</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Mr._Heckles" title="Mr. Heckles">Mr. Heckles</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Michael_G._Hagerty" title="Michael G. Hagerty">Michael G. Hagerty</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Mr._Treeger" title="Mr. Treeger">Mr. Treeger</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Danny_Dayton?action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="Danny Dayton (page does not exist)">Danny Dayton</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Buddy_Doyle" title="Buddy Doyle">Buddy Doyle</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Maggie_Wheeler" title="Maggie Wheeler">Maggie Wheeler</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Janice_Litman" title="Janice Litman" class="mw-redirect">Janice Litman</a><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Kevin_S._Bright" title="Kevin S. Bright">Kevin S. Bright</a><br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Michael_Curtis" title="Michael Curtis">Michael Curtis</a> &amp; <a href="/wiki/Gregory_S._Malins" title="Gregory S. Malins">Gregory S. Malins</a><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Continuity">Continuity</span></h3>
<ul><li> At the beginning of the episode, before Chandler comes in Monica's apartment, it seems like the friends are playing poker. The girls learned to play poker in <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_All_The_Poker" title="The One With All The Poker">The One With All The Poker</a>.
</li><li>Janice's prophecy in <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Candy_Hearts" title="The One With The Candy Hearts">The One With The Candy Hearts</a> comes true, as Chandler is the one to call her.
</li><li>This is Mr. Heckles' last living appearance. He appears again in <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Flashback" title="The One With The Flashback">The One With The Flashback</a>, the events of which occur before the events in <a href="/wiki/The_Pilot" title="The Pilot">The Pilot</a>.
</li><li>This is also Treeger's first appearance as the building's superintendent.
</li><li>To add to the singing talent he used when he was in Ross' college band, "Way, No Way!", Chandler is revealed to have played clarinet in band.
</li><li>The glass which makes Monica's ass look fat is in Joey's apartment crap wish-list since <a href="/wiki/Season_1" title="Season 1">Season 1</a>, where in <a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_The_Monkey_Gets_Away" title="The One Where The Monkey Gets Away">The One Where The Monkey Gets Away</a>, he asks Heckles if he could have it. This is only featured in the uncut DVD episode.
</li><li>Monica and Chandler will have a similar argument in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Ross%27_Denial" title="The One With Ross' Denial" class="mw-redirect">The One With Ross' Denial</a>" as Monica and Rachel in this episode. In both plot lines, Monica is refusing to let Rachel/Chandler furnish the apartment with their own items.
</li><li>Phoebe likes to freak Ross out using his paleontology-related work. In this episode, Ross gets mad at Phoebe for not believing the theory on evolution. In <a href="/wiki/Season_9" title="Season 9">Season 9</a>, in <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Soap_Opera_Party" title="The One With The Soap Opera Party">The One With The Soap Opera Party</a>, he gets mad at Phoebe for looking through his stuff and memorizing titles to freak him out.
</li><li>In the episode, Chandler tells Joey that they will go off and get married and he will end up alone. Ironically, he is the first of the Friends to get married and settle down with Monica while at the end of the series, Joey ends up alone although he does get engaged in the spin-off, Joey.
</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs</span></h3>
<ul><li>When Chandler is shouting to Rachel and Monica about how he is going to become "Crazy Snake Man", Rachel's arms are at her sides. The camera shot changes as Monica tries to console Chandler, and Rachel suddenly has her arms folded with one hand at her mouth, with no time to do so.
</li><li> At the beginning, the gang implies that women don't have "adams apples" (actually called a laryngeal prominence), but in reality, everyone has one. Without an adams apple, you wouldn't be able to talk, as it protects your vocal folds (commonly referred to as vocal chords). However, males' adams apples grow at 90% angles, making them "pop out". Adams apple growth is also determined by testosterone, so, if the female had a lot of testosterone during puberty, their adams apples would appear towards a 90% angle as well.
</li><li> Joey shares a story in the beginning about a woman he kissed who had "the biggest Adam's apple." However, later in Season 7 Episode 14 "<a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_They_All_Turn_Thirty" title="The One Where They All Turn Thirty">The One Where They All Turn Thirty</a> ", Joey makes the comment, "But it hurts my Joey's apple," implying that he didn't know that the term "Adam's apple" is a global term.
</li></ul>
