---
layout: post 
category: S02 
header-img: Muj7tpVjO-w 
title: S02E05 -- The One With Five Steaks and an Eggplant 
oloadid: g1hcavfVYrk 
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWRdjlVNGxmWnZyY1k 
--- 
<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One With Five Steaks And An Eggplant"</b> is the fifth episode of the <a href="/wiki/Second_season" title="Second season" class="mw-redirect">second season</a> of <i>Friends</i>, which aired on <a href="/wiki/NBC" title="NBC">NBC</a> on October 19, 1995. When planning birthday festivities for <a href="/wiki/Ross" title="Ross" class="mw-redirect">Ross</a>, the six discover money is an issue in life, even among friends.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p>When a sexy woman named <a href="/wiki/Jade" title="Jade">Jade</a> calls Chandler and Joey's by mistake, looking for her ex-boyfriend Bob, Chandler answers the phone in Bob's stead and fixes himself up on a date with her at the coffeehouse. Ross is reluctant to let Chandler hit on Jade, but Chandler has his way when he steps in and accuses Bob of being a jerk for not showing up (of course, as Bob never got Jade's message, he couldn't know about the date in the first place). Meanwhile, behind Ross' back, Chandler is planning his birthday, involving a gift, a cake, and tickets to see <a href="/wiki/Hootie_and_the_Blowfish" title="Hootie and the Blowfish">Hootie and the Blowfish</a>. <a href="/wiki/Rachel" title="Rachel" class="mw-redirect">Rachel</a>, <a href="/wiki/Phoebe" title="Phoebe" class="mw-redirect">Phoebe</a>, and <a href="/wiki/Joey" title="Joey" class="mw-redirect">Joey</a> find $62 each too expensive of a plan. They get to talking about the fact that Ross, <a href="/wiki/Monica" title="Monica" class="mw-redirect">Monica</a> and Chandler don't seem to notice that Rachel, Phoebe, and Joey are more financially challenged. Monica comes in and unknowingly rubs their face in this when she proposes a fancy dinner that night to celebrate her promotion at the restaurant.
</p><p>The friends go to <a href="/wiki/PhilloSophie" title="PhilloSophie">PhilloSophie</a>, a fancy restaurant, to celebrate Monica. Chandler arrives late to dinner and tells Ross that he just had a great date with Jade. The waiter arrives for the orders. Ross, Monica, and Chandler have casually order expensive seafood, whilst Phoebe orders a cup of soup, Joey gets a small pizza, and Rachel chooses a side salad (on the side of her glass of water). When Ross splits up the bill equally between them, it leaves the poor ones to pay more than what they ordered, which makes Phoebe and Joey bring up the money issue. Joey also reveals Ross' "birthday hoopla", to which Ross becomes initially excited, but then realizes it is in bad taste at the moment. The friends agree to try and solve the money issue.
</p><p>The next day, Monica brings dinner for everyone - five steaks and an eggplant for Phoebe. Monica mentions that she has obtained the steaks from a new meat supplier at work. Ross, Monica, and Chandler also reveal that they have gotten tickets for everyone for the Hootie and the Blowfish concert as their treat, but Rachel, Phoebe and Joey refuse to be paid for as if it were charity. Ross, Monica, and Chandler go to the concert anyway, whilst the others stay home and spend their time guessing how many fingers Joey has behind his back. Chandler tells Ross that he's had sex with Jade. He describes how good he was, mentioning that Jade was biting her lip to keep from screaming his name. Just then, the phone rings. Chandler answers in Bob's stead, and asks Jade how her "fling" was. The replies he receives are not at all what he expected - she found him mediocre (or "eh", as she put it), she had to keep biting her lip to not scream Bob's name (not Chandler's), and found the time much too short.
</p><p>At the coffeehouse, Monica, Ross, and Chandler reveal to the others that they met with the band after the concert, making the others jealous, especially after Phoebe finds a hickey on Monica's neck, which is "the work of a Blowfish". The money argument comes up again, with no apparent solution. Then Monica receives a call from work where her boss tells that the five steaks weren't a gift, but a kickback, and as she accepted them she broke corporate policy and is fired. The money argument is immediately forgotten and everyone consoles Monica. Joey takes the coffee bill to pay it for her, but turns and asks Chandler for five dollars as he doesn't have any.
</p><p>Some time later, Jade calls again at Chandler's. As Chandler isn't there, the answering machine takes the call and prompts for the message. Joey suddenly springs up from the couch, listening intently. When Jade requests one last night of sex he jumps up to grab the phone, but slips and falls.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courteney_Cox" title="Courteney Cox">Courteney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Brittney_Powell" title="Brittney Powell">Brittney Powell</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Jade" title="Jade">Jade</a><br />
<b>Chris Young</b> - <a href="/wiki/Steven_Fisher" title="Steven Fisher">Steven Fisher</a><br />
<b>Spencer Cherashore</b> - <a href="/wiki/PhilloSophie" title="PhilloSophie">PhilloSophie</a> Waiter<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/James_Michael_Tyler" title="James Michael Tyler">James Michael Tyler</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Gunther" title="Gunther">Gunther</a> (uncredited)
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br /> 
Ellen Gittelsohn<br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br /> 
Chris Brown<br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<ul><li>According to the script, <a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a> was supposed to grab the phone and say "Bob here!" when Jade called, but he missed and fell from the couch. The editors chose to go with the latter as they found it funnier.
</li><li>The sarcastic waiter at the restaurant the gang go to is the same one who served <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica</a> and <a href="/wiki/Judy_Geller" title="Judy Geller">Judy</a> in the uncut DVD version of "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Fake_Monica" title="The One With The Fake Monica">The One With The Fake Monica</a>" (S1E21). The restaurants, however, are different.
</li><li>The name of the fancy restaurant is not spoken in the episode, but the menus clearly say <a href="/wiki/PhilloSophie" title="PhilloSophie">PhilloSophie</a> on them.
</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs</span></h3>
<ul><li>When <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross</a> is talking with <a href="/wiki/Julie" title="Julie">Julie</a> on the phone, he asks everyone to say 'Hi' to her. After the camera angle changes to show the rest of the gang, you can see the microphone hanging above them.
</li><li>When Monica is talking on the phone near the end of the episode, the phone switches hands so she's holding it against her opposite ear, with no time to do so.
</li><li>In this episode Monica gets fired from her job, yet in <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Phoebe%27s_Wedding" title="The One With Phoebe's Wedding">The One With Phoebe's Wedding</a> she says that she's never been fired. However, she says this about nine years later, so it is possible she simply forgot.
</li></ul>
