---
layout: post 
category: S02 
header-img: x3jzJs9fHTc 
title: S02E22 -- The One With Two Parties 
oloadid: 4iHFjd-f09g 
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWRSmQ5Ym9xRWt5NHM 
--- 
<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One With The Two Parties"</b> is the twenty-second episode of the <a href="/wiki/Season_2" title="Season 2">second season</a> of <i>Friends</i>, which aired on <a href="/wiki/NBC" title="NBC">NBC</a> on May 2, 1996.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p>At Monica's new workplace, the <a href="/wiki/Moondance_Diner" title="Moondance Diner">Moondance Diner</a>, the guys discuss Rachel's birthday. Monica wants to throw a classy party, but the others disagree.The invite list is almost made up, but on Rachel's revelation that her parents yelled at each other during her sister's graduation, Monica invites only Rachel's mother to the party.
</p><p>As the party's about to start, Rachel's father shows up unexpectedly. The guys hide him in Rachel's room when Rachel's mother shows up for the party. Phoebe distracts Mrs. Green while the guys take Dr. Green to their apartment, along with streamers from the party. Following their romantic dinner, Rachel is "surprised" to find a party for her, although not as surprised to have two parties - each of which has one of her parents.
</p><p>Quickly things begin to go wrong. Monica rules over her party with an iron fist, complete with boring games and a strict adherence to the rules. As a result, guests start abandoning the party and heading to Chandler and Joey's bash, which is a lot more fun and laidback. Meanwhile, Ross tries to bond with Rachel's parents, but makes a fool of himself. Rachel, on the other hand, has other problems on her mind, as she tries to spend time with both her mother and her father but the two find only things to say about each other, which is driving her crazy. When Ross goes to fetch Rachel's dad his favourite drink and his glasses, Sandra spots him and recommends Rachel see a therapist (believing she is dating a man who reminds her of her father).
</p><p>Amazingly, despite numerous problems, the six friends manage to get both of Rachel's parents out of the parties without seeing each other. As Dr. Green leaves Monica's, Joey turns Rachel's mom and kisses her on the lips until Rachel's dad is gone. Mrs. Green slaps Joey lovingly on the cheek, exclaiming how this was the best party she's been to in years.
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courtney_Cox" title="Courtney Cox" class="mw-redirect">Courtney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p><p><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Marlo_Thomas" title="Marlo Thomas">Marlo Thomas</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Sandra_Green" title="Sandra Green">Sandra Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Ron_Leibman" title="Ron Leibman">Ron Leibman</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Dr._Leonard_Green" title="Dr. Leonard Green" class="mw-redirect">Dr. Leonard Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/James_Michael_Tyler" title="James Michael Tyler">James Michael Tyler</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Gunther" title="Gunther">Gunther</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Nancy_Rubin?action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="Nancy Rubin (page does not exist)">Nancy Rubin</a></b> - Guest<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lewis_Dix_Jr.?action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="Lewis Dix Jr. (page does not exist)">Lewis Dix Jr.</a></b> - Man<br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Michael_Lembeck" title="Michael Lembeck">Michael Lembeck</a><br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Alexa_Junge" title="Alexa Junge">Alexa Junge</a><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="General">General</span></h3>
<ul><li> Rachel hypotheses that her father will get a condo and her sister will decorate it in wicker. In "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Rachel%27s_Other_Sister" title="The One With Rachel's Other Sister">The One With Rachel's Other Sister</a>" (S9E8), Rachel's sister <a href="/wiki/Amy" title="Amy" class="mw-redirect">Amy</a> mentions she decorated their father's office.
</li><li> The name of Rachel's sister <a href="/wiki/Jill" title="Jill" class="mw-redirect">Jill</a> is confirmed in this episode; Jill later appears in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Rachel%27s_Sister" title="The One With Rachel's Sister">The One With Rachel's Sister</a>" (S6E13).
</li><li> This is the only episode in which both of Rachel's parents appear.
</li><li>Despite Joey telling Ross that he "broke the code" by making out with <a href="/wiki/Nora_Tyler_Bing" title="Nora Tyler Bing">Chandler's mom</a> in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Mrs._Bing" title="The One With Mrs. Bing">The One With Mrs. Bing</a>" (S1E11), he kisses Rachel's mom at the end of this episode. It's also true, however, that as the guys are avoiding making her and her ex-husband meet at any cost, this wouldn't count as a genuine gesture on his behalf but only a desperate measure to call for in desperate times.
</li><li>Ross is shown not to bond very much with Rachel's dad - especially when the former makes a fool of himself and is then caught wearing the latter's glasses and having one of his cigarettes in his mouth. Only at the end of the <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Race_Car_Bed" title="The One With The Race Car Bed">seventh episode of Season 3</a> do the two bond a little. However, the bonding is very temporary and following the <a href="/wiki/Season_3" title="Season 3">Season 3</a> episode, Ross and Dr. Green fall back to disliking each other onwards.
</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs</span></h3>
<ul><li> In this episode <a href="/wiki/Rachel" title="Rachel" class="mw-redirect">Rachel</a>'s dad smokes, however in a future episode (S5, Ep18 TOW Rachel Smokes) Rachel has stated she does not smoke because 'her dad is a doctor and he has told her many horror stories about smoking' alluding to the fact that her dad wouldn't smoke either due to his profession and the advice he gave Rachel.
</li><li> <a href="/wiki/Gunther" title="Gunther">Gunther</a> wears a wedding ring while talking to <a href="/wiki/Phoebe" title="Phoebe" class="mw-redirect">Phoebe</a> about leaving Monica's party.
</li><li> Monica shouts in <a href="/wiki/Joey" title="Joey" class="mw-redirect">Joey</a> and <a href="/wiki/Chandler" title="Chandler" class="mw-redirect">Chandler</a>'s "Hey, You and you, you are meant to be at my party!!", while <a href="/wiki/Leonard_Green" title="Leonard Green">Rachel's father</a> was there. However, they didn't want him to know about the other party. Although it is possible that he did not hear Monica over the music.
</li><li> Chandler briefly looked at the camera when Monica called Joey out for staring at her fake boobs. (At around 0:46 minute mark.) 
</li><li> Several goofs involving the characters arms are shown:
<ul><li> When Phoebe is planning to get the people out of Monica's party, when she says "There isn't time!" her right arm's position change between shots.
</li><li> When Rachel's mom says "You've chosen a boyfriend exactly like your father." her arms change between these shots.
</li><li> Later, when Rachel is talking to Chandler, she says "My mom there, my dad there. Thanksgiving, Christmas." the position of her left arm also change between shots.
</li></ul>
</li></ul>
