---
layout: post 
category: S02 
header-img: 2KP24iWkxbs 
title: S02E20 -- The One Where Old Yeller Dies 
oloadid: qckn3-vXWzs 
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWRRGphZDJLM3NKM2c 
--- 
<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One Where Old Yeller Dies"</b> is the twentieth episode of the <a href="/wiki/Season_2" title="Season 2">second season</a> of <i>Friends</i>, which aired on <a href="/wiki/NBC" title="NBC">NBC</a> on April 4, 1996.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p>When Monica, <a href="/wiki/Richard" title="Richard" class="mw-redirect">Richard</a>, <a href="/wiki/Ross_and_Rachel" title="Ross and Rachel">Ross and Rachel</a> are watching <i>Old Yeller</i>, Phoebe finds out that her mother never showed her the ends of sad movies to shield her from the pain, "you know, that was before she killed herself". Phoebe rents all the movies her mother didn't let her see, which really upsets her, because all the movies have sad endings.
</p>
<p>When Joey and Chandler have an extra ticket for a Knicks game, Monica convinces them to take Richard, but they do it only because they can go to the game in his Jaguar. Joey and Chandler start really liking him, so much that Chandler starts growing a moustache and Joey starts smoking cigars, and Richard himself starts to spend all of his free time with the guys rather than Monica. During a foosball game, Joey accidentally let it slip that they see Richard more as a dad than as a friend, which hurts Richard, who thought of himself as "one of the guys".
</p><p>Ross is so upset that he misses so many of Ben's 'firsts', that he wants him for a whole weekend. Rachel isn't very good with babies, but Ross says that it's going to be totally different when it's their baby, which freaks Rachel out because Ross has planned their future living with two children in the suburbs. When Ross goes to fetch Ben's things, Rachel finishes diapering Ben and says hi to him, and is surprised when Ben says hi back.
</p><p>Ross is disappointed in having missed Ben's first word, but when Carol and Susan come to pick Ben up and he says bye gloomily, to everyone's surprise, Ben says hi back, with Ross finally happy that Ben spoke to him.
</p><p>In the closing credits, Phoebe is seen watching <i>Sesame Street</i> with Ben, telling Ben not to worry that Bert is gone, because Ernie would find him later on and also sing the alphabet, while lamenting that she is glad he is here. Ben then says "bye Phoebe" as the episode comes to an end.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courtney_Cox" title="Courtney Cox" class="mw-redirect">Courtney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jessica_Hecht" title="Jessica Hecht">Jessica Hecht</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Susan_Bunch" title="Susan Bunch">Susan Bunch</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Tom_Selleck" title="Tom Selleck">Tom Selleck</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Dr._Richard_Burke" title="Dr. Richard Burke" class="mw-redirect">Dr. Richard Burke</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Jane_Sibbett" title="Jane Sibbett">Jane Sibbett</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Carol_Willick" title="Carol Willick">Carol Willick</a><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Michael_Lembeck" title="Michael Lembeck">Michael Lembeck</a><br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Michael_Curtis" title="Michael Curtis">Michael Curtis</a>, <a href="/wiki/Gregory_S._Malins" title="Gregory S. Malins">Gregory S. Malins</a> &amp; <a href="/wiki/Adam_Chase" title="Adam Chase">Adam Chase</a><br />
</p><p><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="General">General</span></h3>
<ul><li>Ross talks about him and Rachel having children: maybe two: a boy and a girl and hopefully, the girl would come first so Ben won't feel too competitive. And surprisingly enough, in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_Rachel_Has_A_Baby,_Part_2" title="The One Where Rachel Has A Baby, Part 2">The One Where Rachel Has A Baby, Part 2</a>", Rachel gives birth to her and Ross's baby girl.
</li><li>Ross states 'Emily' as a possible name for their future daughter but wind up passing up that name, possibly due to the fact that Ross was married to a horrible woman named Emily. They end up naming their daughter Emma, which Monica was saving for her own child, but she let Ross and Rachel use it instead.
</li><li> In this episode, Ben says his first word," Hi", which is the first thing that Ross says in the series. {{<a href="/wiki/The_Pilot" title="The Pilot">The Pilot</a>}}
</li><li> This is the first appearance of Chandler's moustache. The next time we see this is in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Flashback" title="The One With The Flashback">The One With The Flashback</a>" (S3E6), where he also has a beard.
</li><li> When Phoebe is talking about the movies she watched, she says: "Oh, murder, cancer, soccer teams eating each other in the Andes", Actually are Rugby players, from the movie 'Alive', which is based on a real story of Uruguayan rugby players who had to eat each others when their plane crashed in the Chilean Andes, in 1972.
</li><li><a href="/wiki/Ross_and_Rachel" title="Ross and Rachel">Ross and Rachel</a> say "I love you" for the first time.
</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs</span></h3>
<ul><li>When Richard is playing foosball with Chandler and Joey, you can briefly see the edge of the set of their apartment
</li><li>Rachel said she hasn't been around babies since she was one. However, she has two younger sisters, but probably meant she hasn't been around babies who are not in her family.
</li><li>When Monica tells the guys she's wearing nothing but rubber gloves, they storm into her apartment. However, the door to their own apartment is still closed. (Counter argument; the guys could have shut the door to their apartment whilst asking Monica what she was wearing.)
</li><li>When Joey tells Monica they will bring Richard to the game Chandler is looking down. However when it cuts to Monica immediately after Joey says "but only if he brings the Jaguar", Chandler is looking straight ahead and mouthing something, even though there was no time to do so. When it cuts back to Chandler and Joey, Chandler is looking down and then up at Joey as if he had never looked up before.
</li></ul>
