---
layout: post 
category: S02 
header-img: TiPhJf8ezok 
title: S02E23 -- The One With The Chicken Pox 
oloadid: 6EuJ1h5EP-k 
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWROUxkb1k3SFhEOEE 
--- 
<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One With The Chicken Pox"</b> is the twenty-third episode of the <a href="/wiki/Season_2" title="Season 2">second season</a> of <i>Friends</i>, which aired on <a href="/wiki/NBC" title="NBC">NBC</a> on May 9, 1996.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p>Ryan, a guy in the navy who used to date Phoebe, is coming to the city for two whole weeks. Ben has chicken pox and everybody except Phoebe has had them and unfortunately Phoebe gets it. Ryan also hasn't had them, but he wouldn't let the pox stand between them, resulting in both having the chicken pox and the itching driving them crazy. Ryan leaves after two not-so-romantic weeks and is never seen again.
</p><p>Joey needs some money, so Chandler organizes a job as a data processor at his work for Joey. Joey, not knowing how to process data, decides to act as a processor, named Joseph. His character has two kids and a wife, Karen. Unfortunately for him, Chandler hates Joseph, because he gets along with other employees int he workplace by blaming Chandler for all his faults. They agree that Joseph has to go, after Chandler acted that he cheated with Karen.
</p><p>Monica is upset that Richard doesn't have one little thing that he is obsessive about, but in the end he discovers that he has one obsessive thing (he has to sleep in the left side of the bed). Ross ends up wearing a Navy uniform to spice things up with Rachel, who kills the moment.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courtney_Cox" title="Courtney Cox" class="mw-redirect">Courtney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Mary-Pat_Green" title="Mary-Pat Green">Mary-Pat Green</a></b> - Jeannie<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Steve_Park?action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="Steve Park (page does not exist)">Steve Park</a></b> - Scott Alexander<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Tom_Selleck" title="Tom Selleck">Tom Selleck</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Dr._Richard_Burke" title="Dr. Richard Burke" class="mw-redirect">Dr. Richard Burke</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Charlie_Sheen" title="Charlie Sheen">Charlie Sheen</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ryan" title="Ryan">Ryan</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Dorien_Wilson?action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="Dorien Wilson (page does not exist)">Dorien Wilson</a></b> - Mr. Kogen<br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Written By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Brown_Mandell" title="Brown Mandell">Brown Mandell</a><br />
</p><p><b>Directed By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Michael_Lembeck" title="Michael Lembeck">Michael Lembeck</a><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<ul><li>In this episode, it's shown that Monica always wants to sleep at the right side (for the viewers) of the bed. However, in almost every scene where she's in bed with <a href="/wiki/Chandler" title="Chandler" class="mw-redirect">Chandler</a>, she's at the left side of the bed.
</li><li>The scene where Rachel is carried away by Ross is a parody of the end scene in <i>An Officer And A Gentleman, </i>complete with Joe Cocker and Jennifer Warnes' "Up Where We Belong" playing in the background.
</li><li>This is the second of two episodes in which Chandler gets one of the other friends a job at his work. The other one is "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Ick_Factor" title="The One With The Ick Factor">The One With The Ick Factor</a>", where Phoebe becomes Chandler's secretary.
</li><li>This is the first of three episodes in which Joey gets a job at one of his friend's work. In "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Phoebe%27s_Uterus" title="The One With Phoebe's Uterus">The One With Phoebe's Uterus</a>", Ross gets Joey a job as a tour guide at the museum. In "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Girl_From_Poughkeepsie" title="The One With The Girl From Poughkeepsie">The One With The Girl From Poughkeepsie</a>", Monica hires, and fires, Joey as a waiter at Allesandro's.
</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs</span></h2>
<ul><li>In the teaser scene when Monica grabs the mug from the coffee table and licks it before telling Chandler "There you go, enjoy your coffee," the mug is clearly empty.
</li><li>During the scene where Richard confronts Monica about remaking the bed, the duvet on which Monica is resting changes positions dramatically between shots.
</li><li>During the closing credits Dorrian Wilson is credited as portraying Mr Kogen; however during the episode Chandler refers to him as Mr. Douglas. In the episode "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Two_Parts,_Part_1" title="The One With Two Parts, Part 1">The One With Two Parts, Part 1</a>", the same actor plays Mr. Douglas, indicated there was an error in this episodes closing credits.
</li><li>The symptoms (spots, fever, etc) of chicken pox only develop 2 - 3 weeks after exposure to the virus. Therefore, when Ross knew that Ben had chicken pox, Phoebe shouldn't have developed the condition until at least two weeks later, and Ryan certainly shouldn't have developed the disease until the end of his stay (as Phoebe was his only contact with the virus).
</li><li>As Ryan is a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy who had been serving for the last two years deployed on a submarine, he would be wearing his "Dolphins" (more formally known as the "Submarine Warfare Insignia", a badge used to signify his qualification as a submariner), yet doesn't appear to be wearing one on his uniform.
</li></ul>
