---
layout: post 
category: S02 
header-img: z00ZiGW50ho 
title: S02E17 -- The One Where Eddie Moves In 
oloadid: ig0v8GKDiy4 
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWRcDI1eFFjUlRSTHc 
--- 
<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One Where Eddie Moves In"</b> is the seventeenth episode of the <a href="/wiki/Season_2" title="Season 2">second season</a> of <i>Friends</i>, which aired on <a href="/wiki/NBC" title="NBC">NBC</a> on February 22, 1996.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p>Everyone is at Joey's new apartment except for Chandler, who apparently is still taking the moving-out hard. He and Joey have a good telephone conversation over the phone that same night, and the oven timer at Chandler's rings off, signaling the start of <i>Baywatch</i>, which the two watch and comment upon over the phone. Joey, however, finds living alone solitary and slightly depressing, and talks to Monica and Phoebe how he might want to move back with Chandler. Ross and Rachel, on the other hand, convince Chandler that there's no way Joey wants to move back in.
</p><p>Phoebe is discovered by a record producer, who wants to make a music video with <a href="/wiki/Smelly_Cat" title="Smelly Cat"><i>Smelly Cat</i></a>. Phoebe promptly agrees to this, and records the song and the video. When she sees the ends result, everyone is surprised to hear another woman singing in Phoebe's place (Phoebe still appears in the video). Phoebe, however, thinks it's herself. Eventually she discovers that the agreement she signed upon gives her consent to overdub her voice with another's, and Phoebe ends up feeling badly for the singer (who is less attractive than her), comparing her with "Smelly Cat".
</p><p>Now that he's dating Rachel, Ross is spending a lot more of his free time at her apartment. As a result, he and Monica soon begin to descend into the kind of petty arguments they had when they were kids. As the two squabble over what to watch on TV, Monica admits she hated Ross when she was growing up. Ross feels hurt, and Monica makes up with him by assuring him she loves him now (and not just because she has to). 
</p><p>When Joey visits Chandler to talk about their living situation, he meets Eddie, Chandler's new roommate. Eddie seems to click pretty well with Chandler, convincing him to move the mail around and to prefer eggs "à la Eddie" to eggs "à la Joey". When Joey confronts Chandler about this, Chandler tries to show some closure, and that by moving out, Joey couldn't expect Chandler not to find "new eggs". Time gives an answer to Chandler, however, as Eddie lacks the features which made he and Joey great friends, as Eddie likes neither foosball nor <i>Baywatch</i>. Joey also quickly finds that living alone isn't as great as he thought it would be, and the episode ends with Chandler and Joey staring in the rain - and in Joey's case, in the electric raindrop glass - as the two begin to realize how much they miss living together.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courtney_Cox" title="Courtney Cox" class="mw-redirect">Courtney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p><p><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Adam_Goldberg" title="Adam Goldberg">Adam Goldberg</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Eddie_Menuek" title="Eddie Menuek">Eddie Menuek</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Dee_Dee_Rescher?action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="Dee Dee Rescher (page does not exist)">Dee Dee Rescher</a></b> - Record Producer<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Barry_Heins?action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="Barry Heins (page does not exist)">Barry Heins</a></b> - 'Pie in the Hood' Man<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Linda_Lutz?action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="Linda Lutz (page does not exist)">Linda Lutz</a></b> - Horrible Woman<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Mary_Gallagher" title="Mary Gallagher">Mary Gallagher</a></b> - Tilly (uncredited)<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/James_Michael_Tyler" title="James Michael Tyler">James Michael Tyler</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Gunther" title="Gunther">Gunther</a> (uncredited)<br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br />
<a href="/wiki/Michael_Lembeck" title="Michael Lembeck">Michael Lembeck</a><br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br />
<a href="/wiki/Adam_Chase" title="Adam Chase">Adam Chase</a><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<ul><li>Phoebe thinks that it's herself who sings in the overdubbed voice, describing herself as "extremely talented". In the later seasons (especially in seasons <a href="/wiki/Season_9" title="Season 9">9</a> and <a href="/wiki/Season_10" title="Season 10">10</a>) this would become a running gag of Phoebe's, where she lacks total modesty, albeit mostly about her appearance.
</li><li>The new apartment shown in this episode is where Joey would be living in an alternate reality, as in <a href="/wiki/The_One_That_Could_Have_Been" title="The One That Could Have Been" class="mw-redirect">The One That Could Have Been</a>.
</li><li><a href="/wiki/Adam_Goldberg" title="Adam Goldberg">Adam Goldberg</a>, that plays Eddie, also appears in <a href="/wiki/Joey_(TV_Series)" title="Joey (TV Series)"><i>Joey</i></a> as Gina's boyfriend.
</li><li>On Phoebe's video, when the information comes up saying the name and artist of the song, the director is creditied as A. Chase, referring to series writer <a href="/wiki/Adam_Chase" title="Adam Chase">Adam Chase</a>. Also BKC records expands to Bright, Kaufmann and Crane who are the creators of the show.
</li><li>This is the first appearance of <a href="/wiki/Pat_the_dog" title="Pat the dog" class="mw-redirect">Pat the dog</a>.
</li><li>When Phoebe is in the recording studio, the record producer says "From the top". But in <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Baby_On_The_Bus" title="The One With The Baby On The Bus">The One With The Baby On The Bus</a>, when Phoebe is rehearsing <a href="/wiki/Smelly_Cat" title="Smelly Cat">Smelly Cat</a> with <a href="/wiki/Stephanie" title="Stephanie">Stephanie</a>, Phoebe says that in Smelly Cat there is no top. But since the people in the recording studio are professionals, Phoebe probably is just following along.
</li><li>Joey says Chandler is in love with Yasmine Bleeth. Matthew Perry actually dated her in 1996.
</li></ul>
