---
layout: post 
category: S02 
header-img: 48VjpxmjApw 
title: S02E14 -- The One With The Prom Video 
oloadid: SJHFwsiV408 
gdriveid: 0BzyFMnstuAWRbW5BLVplX0w1dWs 
--- 
<!--more--> 
<p><b>"The One With The Prom Video"</b> is the fourteenth episode of the <a href="/wiki/Second_season" title="Second season" class="mw-redirect">second season</a> of <i>Friends</i>, which aired on <a href="/wiki/NBC" title="NBC">NBC</a> on February 1, 1996. The episode focuses on the main characters watching <a href="/wiki/Monica" title="Monica" class="mw-redirect">Monica</a> and <a href="/wiki/Rachel" title="Rachel" class="mw-redirect">Rachel</a> getting ready for their high school prom in the titular video. A subplot sees a now-wealthy <a href="/wiki/Joey" title="Joey" class="mw-redirect">Joey</a> buying roommate <a href="/wiki/Chandler" title="Chandler" class="mw-redirect">Chandler</a> an unusual gift.
</p><p>The episode was directed by <a href="/wiki/James_Burrows" title="James Burrows">James Burrows</a>, written by <a href="/wiki/Alexa_Junge" title="Alexa Junge">Alexa Junge</a> and guest-stars <a href="/wiki/Elliott_Gould" title="Elliott Gould">Elliott Gould</a> and <a href="/wiki/Christina_Pickles" title="Christina Pickles">Christina Pickles</a> as <a href="/wiki/Jack_Geller" title="Jack Geller">Jack</a> and <a href="/wiki/Judy_Geller" title="Judy Geller">Judy Geller</a>, and Patrick Kerr as the <a href="/wiki/Resturant_Manger/Producer" title="Resturant Manger/Producer">restaurant manager</a>. It frequently ranks among the series' best episodes in polls.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p>After he starts making more money playing <a href="/wiki/Drake_Ramoray" title="Drake Ramoray">Drake Ramoray</a> on <i><a href="/wiki/Days_of_Our_Lives" title="Days of Our Lives" class="mw-redirect">Days of Our Lives</a></i>, Joey gives Chandler an extremely tacky gold, engraved bracelet as thanks for paying for head shots and food. Chandler mocks it when it costs him a date, greatly upsetting Joey when he overhears. Chandler apologizes to Joey and promises to never take it off again, though later loses it. He reluctantly buys a replacement, but the original is found shortly afterwards. When Joey sees Chandler holding two bracelets, he gives one to Joey, repairing their friendship.
</p><p><br />
<a href="/wiki/Ross" title="Ross" class="mw-redirect">Ross</a> continues to seek forgiveness from Rachel for <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_List" title="The One With The List">the list</a>, but she tells him that they as a couple will never happen. <a href="/wiki/Phoebe" title="Phoebe" class="mw-redirect">Phoebe</a> thinks otherwise, however, calling Ross and Rachel lobsters. When she receives blank looks, she explains: "It's a known fact that lobsters fall in love and mate for life. You can actually see old lobster couples walking around their tank, holding claws." <a href="/wiki/Jack_Geller" title="Jack Geller">Jack</a> and <a href="/wiki/Judy_Geller" title="Judy Geller">Judy Geller</a> bring boxes of Monica's possessions to her apartment because they are turning her room into a gym. While looking through it, Monica finds a video of her and Rachel getting ready for their senior prom.
</p><p>The friends decide to watch the video from the prom although Ross objects to everyone seeing the tape. The video reveals that Monica was previously obese, and that Rachel had a large nose. Rachel seems to be stood up by her prom date, <a href="/wiki/Chip_Matthews" title="Chip Matthews">Chip Matthews</a>, so after some persuading from Judy, Ross plans to take her to prom instead. He dresses up in a suit and finds a makeshift flower bouquet, but Rachel's date shows up before she learns of Ross' plans. The video ends with Ross looking disappointed and rejected. Rachel, touched by Ross's gesture, gets up and passionately kisses Ross, forgiving him for what happened between them. The episode ends with Phoebe exclaiming "See, he's her lobster!".
</p><p>During the end credits, Monica finishes watching the tape, and inadvertently finds a recording of Jack and Judy having sex.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courteney_Cox" title="Courteney Cox">Courteney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
</p><p><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Elliott_Gould" title="Elliott Gould">Elliott Gould</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Jack_Geller" title="Jack Geller">Jack Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Christina_Pickles" title="Christina Pickles">Christina Pickles</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Judy_Geller" title="Judy Geller">Judy Geller</a><br />
<b><a rel="nofollow" class="external text" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patrick_Kerr">Patrick Kerr</a></b> - The Restaurant Manager<br />
<b>Michael Ray Bower</b> - Roy Gublik<br />
<b>Lou Thornton</b> - Gail<br />
<b>Tim Bohn</b> - Jonathan<br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b>
<a href="/wiki/James_Burrows" title="James Burrows">James Burrows</a>
</p><p><b>Written By:</b>
<a href="/wiki/Alexa_Junge" title="Alexa Junge">Alexa Junge</a>
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Production">Production</span></h2>
<p>The producers had kept Ross and Rachel from being together throughout the <a href="/wiki/Season_One" title="Season One" class="mw-redirect">first season</a>, eventually bringing them together in the second season episode "<a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_Ross_Finds_Out" title="The One Where Ross Finds Out">The One Where Ross Finds Out</a>", only to split them up in the following episode. Writer Alexa Junge incorporated many of her own experiences into the script, in particular Phoebe's line about Ross and Rachel being "lobsters", something Junge's husband once said. Aniston wore a false nose for the scenes in the video while Cox wore a "fat suit". While a <a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_Nana_Dies_Twice" title="The One Where Nana Dies Twice">previous episode</a> had already established Monica as being overweight as a child, this was the first on-screen appearance of "Fat Monica" (the fat suit made frequent return appearances). Rachel's large nose was added because Junge believed that the characters "were so good-looking, you wanted to feel they had some realness in their past".
</p><p>At first, Schwimmer did not want to wear the afro wig and mustache because he thought he would look like Gabe Kaplan in Welcome Back, Kotter (a similarity referenced in the episode). He relented because it enabled him to "tap into a part of himself that was very vulnerable and shy" and incorporate it into his performance. An early script draft featured a scene in the prom video in which an episode of All My Children is on in the background. The scene was intended to feature the character "Bryce", played by Gunther (as it was revealed that Gunther had once had a role as this character in this sitcom in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_Eddie_Won%27t_Go" title="The One Where Eddie Won't Go">The One Where Eddie Won't Go</a>").
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Reception">Reception</span></h2>
<p><i>Entertainment Weekly</i> rates the episode "A", welcoming the return of Burrows as director and calling the prom video "witty character development disguised as a standard flashback." The authors of Friends Like Us: The Unofficial Guide to Friends write that it is "a watershed in the history of the show" and "It's the sign of a good show that they can switch so effortlessly from comedy to pathos to romance in one short scene." Robert Bianco wrote in <i>USA Today</i> in 2004, "If any one outing can take credit for moving Friends from good to great, it's Prom Video" and describes the resolution as an "ingenious, unexpected twist."
</p><p>The episode is popular among fans of the series. It appeared on one of the first region 1 "Best Of" DVD releases and is one of the two episodes to feature an audio commentary on the region 1 DVD release of the complete second season. In a poll conducted shortly before the series finale, "The One with the Prom Video" was voted the best episode of Friends, with 1.6 million people polling on the Internet. The episode is the favorite of Schwimmer, who liked the comedic and emotional origins of the Ross/Rachel relationship, as well as the exchange between Monica and Chandler as she defends her weight on the video.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="General">General</span></h3>
<ul><li>The dressing gown Monica was wearing was the same one worn by <a href="/wiki/Carol_Willick" title="Carol Willick">Carol</a> in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_Without_The_Ski_Trip" title="The One Without The Ski Trip">The One Without The Ski Trip</a>" (S3E17). Rachel was also seen wearing it in "<a href="/wiki/The_Pilot" title="The Pilot">The Pilot</a>" (S1E1).
</li><li>This is the first appearance of Fat Monica. According to Matthew Perry, Courtney Cox was so well characterized in the fat suit that he passed right by her without recognizing her.
</li><li>This is also the first appearance of Rachel with her deviated septum.
</li><li>Ross re-discovers the passion for playing his keyboard in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_Where_Chandler_Crosses_The_Line" title="The One Where Chandler Crosses The Line">The One Where Chandler Crosses The Line</a>" (S4E7).
</li><li>Patrick Kerr, the actor who portrays the perverted restaurant manager with a salad fetish who interviews Monica, later appeared in an episode of <a href="/wiki/Joey_(TV_Series)" title="Joey (TV Series)">Joey</a> as a TV producer at an awards show. Whether or not the two characters portrayed by Kerr are <a href="/wiki/Resturant_Manger/Producer" title="Resturant Manger/Producer">the same person is</a> unknown, but a possibility given the number of years that took place between the episodes.
</li><li>Monica is informed that her old room will become the new Geller gym. Her room/gym can be seen in "<a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Cuffs" title="The One With The Cuffs">The One With The Cuffs</a>" (S4E3).
</li><li><a href="/wiki/Ross_and_Rachel" title="Ross and Rachel">Ross and Rachel</a> finally become a couple.
</li><li>This episode is one of the few times you hear about the friendship between The Geller Family and The Green Family. As <a href="/wiki/Jack_Geller" title="Jack Geller">Jack</a> mentions that he was not surprised about Rachel's parents breaking up, even mentioning a Hawaii incident. This is a friendship never shown onscreen, and only mentioned a few times in the whole series. In fact, you never see Jack or <a href="/wiki/Judy_Geller" title="Judy Geller">Judy</a> interact with <a href="/wiki/Sandra_Green" title="Sandra Green">Sandra</a> or <a href="/wiki/Leonard_Green" title="Leonard Green">Leonard</a>. 
</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Quotes"> Quotes </span></h3>
<ul><li><b>Phoebe:</b> (pulling out Monica's high school swimsuit) What's this?<br /><b>Monica:</b> That was my bathing suit in high school. I was a little bigger then.<br /><b>Chandler:</b> Oh, I thought that that is what they cover Conneticut when it rains.
</li></ul>
<ul><li><b>Joey:</b> Some girl ate Monica.<br /><b>Monica:</b> Shut up, the camera adds ten pounds.<br /><b>Chandler:</b> Okay, so how many cameras are actually on you.
</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs</span></h3>
<ul><li>During the prom video, Monica, Rachel, and Monica's date Roy are standing in the living room. When Roy leaves the room saying, "I'm gonna kick Chip's ass," the camera follows him out, but as it's turning the boom mic operator is visible. He's kneeling on the floor sliding the mic toward the girls.
</li></ul>
