---
layout: post 
category: S03 
header-img: Po9mjnukAY0 
title: S03E05 -- The One With Frank, Jr. 
oloadid: orXawz5bvnA 
gdriveid: 0B2tsexyaYxGCRUFKUkNQNDlNNlE 
--- 
<!--more--> 
<p><b>The One With Frank Jr.</b> is the fifth episode of the <a href="/wiki/Third_season" title="Third season" class="mw-redirect">third season</a> of <i>Friends</i>, which aired on <a href="/wiki/NBC" title="NBC">NBC</a> on October 17, 1996. <a href="/wiki/Phoebe" title="Phoebe" class="mw-redirect">Phoebe</a> invites her half-brother <a href="/wiki/Frank_Jr." title="Frank Jr." class="mw-redirect">Frank Jr.</a> to visit. <a href="/wiki/Ross" title="Ross" class="mw-redirect">Ross</a> makes a list of famous women he'd like to date.
</p>

<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p>Phoebe is excited that her newfound half-brother is coming to visit, hoping to bond with him. Turns out they don't have a lot in common. Frank melts random things with his lighter, makes up his own karate, and Phoebe is finding it difficult to establish a connection. She gets called in to work at the massage place and asks Frank if he wants to come along. He misunderstands what she does and interprets "massage parlor" as a place to get a hooker. Phoebe is upset that the weekend is ruined, but in the end Frank makes her feel like they've bonded a bit.
</p><p>Joey attempts to build an entertainment center, and tile a floor.
</p><p>The gang discusses which five celebrities they would put on their "list" of people they're allowed to sleep with and their significant other can't get mad. Ross bumps Isabella Rosselini off the list because she is out of the country all the time, while Winona Ryder is more local. He ends up running into Isabella at the coffee house. Rachel lets him hit on her anyway which ends in comical rejection.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courtney_Cox" title="Courtney Cox" class="mw-redirect">Courtney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Giovanni_Ribisi" title="Giovanni Ribisi">Giovanni Ribisi</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Frank_Buffay_Jr." title="Frank Buffay Jr.">Frank Buffay Jr.</a><br />
<b>Cynthia Mann</b> - <a href="/wiki/Jasmine" title="Jasmine">Jasmine</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Isabella_Rossellini" title="Isabella Rossellini">Isabella Rossellini</a></b> - Herself<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/James_Michael_Tyler" title="James Michael Tyler">James Michael Tyler</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Gunther" title="Gunther">Gunther</a> (uncredited)<br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Steve_Zuckerman" title="Steve Zuckerman">Steve Zuckerman</a><br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Shana_Goldberg-Meehan" title="Shana Goldberg-Meehan" class="mw-redirect">Shana Goldberg-Meehan</a> &amp; <a href="/wiki/Scott_Silveri" title="Scott Silveri">Scott Silveri</a><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="General">General</span></h3>
<ul><li>Giovanni Ribisi (Frank Jr.) also appeared in <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Baby_On_The_Bus" title="The One With The Baby On The Bus">The One With The Baby On The Bus</a>. However, he is a stranger on the street who had dropped a condom in Phoebe's guitar case when she was playing "Smelly Cat" on the street. He comes back for the condom because he needs it "for an emergency". The characters seem to portray very similar characteristics (such as mockingly naive behavior, much like Phoebe), which makes it likely they are, in fact, the same character.
</li><li>Phoebe tells Frank Jr that her birthday is on February 16. This would have been consistent with <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Two_Parts,_Part_2" title="The One With Two Parts, Part 2">The One With Two Parts, Part 2</a>, when Phoebe's birthday party takes place some time after <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Candy_Hearts" title="The One With The Candy Hearts">Valentine's Day</a>. However, in <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Phoebe%27s_Birthday_Dinner" title="The One With Phoebe's Birthday Dinner">The One With Phoebe's Birthday Dinner</a>, the guys celebrate Phoebe's birthday on Halloween, three months before. But she also says she can't get a reservation for the day of her birthday.
</li><li>In the end of this episode, Joey bets Chandler he could fit into one of the compartments of the new entertainment unit. When he does fit, Chandler locks him in the unit. In <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Cat" title="The One With The Cat">The One With The Cat</a>, Joey does this same thing with a potential unit buyer, who, like Chandler, locks him in the unit. This is how Chandler an Joey end up robbed from everything in their apartment.
</li><li>Chandler's door is never completely repaired or replaced following this episode. Although Monica adjoins the two halves in season four, Joey's cut is still visible for the remaining seven seasons.
</li><li>On Ross's list of celebrity freebies, one of the names listed is <a href="/wiki/Winona_Ryder" title="Winona Ryder">Winona Ryder.</a> She later guest starred as Rachel's old sorority sister, <a href="/wiki/Melissa_Warburton" title="Melissa Warburton">Melissa Warburton</a>, in <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Rachel%27s_Big_Kiss" title="The One With Rachel's Big Kiss">The One With Rachel's Big Kiss</a>.
</li><li>Chandler chose "Jessica Rabbit" for his list, who was voiced by Kathleen Turner - She later played his 'Dad' <a href="/wiki/Charles_Bing" title="Charles Bing">Charles Bing</a> (a.k.a. Helena Handbasket) in later seasons.
</li><li>The "freak" in the coffeehouse whose order was too complicated for Rachel was actually <a href="/wiki/Wil_Calhoun" title="Wil Calhoun">Wil Calhoun</a>, a writer for the show.
</li><li>Matt LeBlanc originally wanted to be a carpenter, as he attended a technical vocation high school and specialized in carpentry, before switching to acting.
</li><li>This is the first appearance of <a href="/wiki/Jasmine" title="Jasmine">Jasmine</a>, Phoebe's co-worker. She then reappeared in <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_The_Morning_After" title="The One With The Morning After">The One With The Morning After</a> (S3E16), finding out about Ross sleeping with <a href="/wiki/Chloe" title="Chloe">Chloe</a>.
</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs</span></h3>

<ul><li>When Ross holds up the card of his five celebrity freebies, the names that printed on it are Uma Thurman, Isabella Rossellini, Elizabeth Hurley, Vanessa Williams and Dorothy Hamill. This is very easy to see on the Blu-ray. Yet moments later when Rachel reads the names, they are Uma Thurman, <b>Winona Ryder</b>, Elizabeth Hurley, <b>Michelle Pfeiffer</b> and Dorothy Hamill.
</li><li>At the end of this episode when Chandler locks Joey inside the entertainment unit, he supposedly gives Joey a five dollar bill, confirmed when Joey says "Hello Mr. Lincoln!" However, when Chandler takes out the bill from his wallet, it is clearly a one dollar bill.
</li><li>When Chandler trips over the bottom of his bedroom door after Joey saws through it, the part he trips over never moves. The bottom part should move because it is not latched to the door frame at all.
</li><li>When Frank Jr. holds a white sheet around himself, while talking to Phoebe at the massage parlor, the gathered sheet in his hand keeps changing repeatedly throughout the scene.
</li><li>When Phoebe is talking to Monica while Frank Jr. is doing karate on the balcony, the blue cup in front of her switches to the other side of her plate and then back when the camera angle changes.
</li><li>When they show the inside of Monica's bathroom, the toilet is in the middle of the bathroom, and it looks out of place. In <a href="/wiki/The_One_With_Chandler_And_Monica%27s_Wedding,_Part_1" title="The One With Chandler And Monica's Wedding, Part 1" class="mw-redirect">"The One With Chandler And Monica's Wedding (1)"</a> when Phoebe finds Rachel's pregnancy test, the toilet is right next to the sink.
</li><li>In the scene where Joey and Monica discuss changing her bathroom tile, Joey moves the hamper to the middle of the doorway and when he kneels down to measure, the hamper is back against the wall.
</li><li>When Frank is trying to melt a spoon there's one shot where he holds the spoon high above the table, then the angle changes and he's pressing the spoon against the plate.
</li></ul>
