---
layout: post 
category: S03 
header-img: zMMR2dZ67E8 
title: S03E03 -- The One With The Jam 
oloadid: ODF2DrSUlEo 
gdriveid: 0B2tsexyaYxGCRjBPdWdERXliU00 
--- 
<!--more--> 
<b>"The One With The Jam"</b> is the third episode of the <a href="/wiki/Third_season" title="Third season" class="mw-redirect">third season</a> of <i>Friends</i>, which aired on October 3, 1996. <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica</a>, tired of being upset after breaking up with <a href="/wiki/Richard_Burke" title="Richard Burke">Richard</a>, Monica decides to start making jam in large quantities.

<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Plot">Plot</span></h2>
<p><a href="/wiki/Monica" title="Monica" class="mw-redirect">Monica</a> has decided she needs a project to help her get over <a href="/wiki/Richard_Burke" title="Richard Burke">Richard</a>, so she takes to making tons of jam (the 'Jam Plan'). When she realizes that she is spending more than she can potentially make by selling the jam, she comes up with a new plan (the 'Baby Plan'). She wants to go to the sperm bank in order to get pregnant and have a baby. She searches through potential sperm donors, even coming across Joey, until she finds the one. Everyone disapproves of this plan, but <a href="/wiki/Joey" title="Joey" class="mw-redirect">Joey</a> is the one to talk her out of it when he start depicting her as a married woman with kids, which is what Monica really wants.
</p>

<p>After somehow managing to call <a href="/wiki/Janice" title="Janice" class="mw-redirect">Janice</a> fat by accident, <a href="/wiki/Chandler" title="Chandler" class="mw-redirect">Chandler</a> goes looking for help from <a href="/wiki/Ross" title="Ross" class="mw-redirect">Ross</a> and <a href="/wiki/Rachel" title="Rachel" class="mw-redirect">Rachel</a>. They are willing to help him out, until Chandler asks about the cuddling problem that he has at night, when he cannot sleep comfortably because Janice is cuddled up against him. Rachel says that she and Ross are "cuddly sleepers" and tells him that they cannot help him. Ross, on the other hand, knows exactly what Chandler is experiencing and lets him in on a secret after Rachel has gone to work. He explains how, with Rachel, he waits for her to fall asleep and then hugs her to his chest, and rolls her to the other side of the bed.
</p><p>Unfortunately, Chandler does not succeed in carrying Ross' solution without rolling Janice off the bed. He also fails to keep his secret from Janice, who tells Rachel, who becomes annoyed at Ross.
</p><p>Meanwhile, <a href="/wiki/Phoebe" title="Phoebe" class="mw-redirect">Phoebe</a> is being stalked by a strange man, <a href="/wiki/Malcolm" title="Malcolm">Malcolm</a>, who thinks that she is <a href="/wiki/Ursula" title="Ursula" class="mw-redirect">Ursula</a>. It turns out, that in spite of his restraining order, he is <a href="/wiki/Obsessive_Love" title="Obsessive Love">still crazy</a> about Ursula, who went on a date with him and then refused to return his calls. Phoebe helps him get over her, but as she has a crush on him, she starts going out with him instead. Things go well until she is convinced by her friends to follow him to see if he is still following Ursula. He is sad that Phoebe does not trust him and has taken to stalking him, but as it turns out, Malcolm is <i>still</i> stalking Ursula. Understandably, this freaks Phoebe out, and she breaks up with him.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Cast_and_Crew">Cast and Crew</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Cast">Main Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/Jennifer_Aniston" title="Jennifer Aniston">Jennifer Aniston</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Rachel_Green" title="Rachel Green">Rachel Green</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Courteney_Cox" title="Courteney Cox">Courteney Cox</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Monica_Geller" title="Monica Geller" class="mw-redirect">Monica Geller</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Lisa_Kudrow" title="Lisa Kudrow">Lisa Kudrow</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Phoebe_Buffay" title="Phoebe Buffay">Phoebe</a> and <a href="/wiki/Ursula_Buffay" title="Ursula Buffay">Ursula Buffay</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matt_LeBlanc" title="Matt LeBlanc">Matt LeBlanc</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Joey_Tribbiani" title="Joey Tribbiani" class="mw-redirect">Joey Tribbiani</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Matthew_Perry" title="Matthew Perry">Matthew Perry</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Chandler_Bing" title="Chandler Bing">Chandler Bing</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/David_Schwimmer" title="David Schwimmer">David Schwimmer</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Ross_Geller" title="Ross Geller">Ross Geller</a><br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Supporting_Cast">Supporting Cast</span></h3>
<p><b><a href="/wiki/David_Arquette" title="David Arquette">David Arquette</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Malcolm" title="Malcolm">Malcolm</a><br />
<b>May Wang</b> - Girl<br />
<b><a href="/wiki/Maggie_Wheeler" title="Maggie Wheeler">Maggie Wheeler</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Janice_Litman" title="Janice Litman" class="mw-redirect">Janice Litman</a><br />
<b><a href="/wiki/James_Michael_Tyler" title="James Michael Tyler">James Michael Tyler</a></b> - <a href="/wiki/Gunther" title="Gunther">Gunther</a> (uncredited)<br />
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Crew">Crew</span></h3>
<p><b>Directed By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Kevin_S._Bright" title="Kevin S. Bright">Kevin S. Bright</a><br />
</p><p><b>Written By:</b><br /> 
<a href="/wiki/Wil_Calhoun" title="Wil Calhoun">Wil Calhoun</a><br />
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Trivia">Trivia</span></h2>
<ul><li>Joey hurting his arm was not originally part of this episode, but Matt LeBlanc dislocated his shoulder while filming, and the injury was written in.
</li><li>This is the final appearance of the subway.
</li><li>Chandler mentions <a href="/wiki/Chloe" title="Chloe">the girl from the xerox place</a> in this episode (the second time he had done so).
</li><li>David Arquette (Malcolm) was actually Courteney Cox's boyfriend at the time the episode aired. The two would later get married in 1999, which is featured in the credits of the <a href="/wiki/Season_6" title="Season 6">Season 6</a> opening episode.
</li><li>Phoebe suggests that Malcolm stalk her by the end of the episode. In the uncut DVD episode, Malcolm can be seen climbing into Monica's balcony from the fire escape. Monica and Joey tell him that "she [Phoebe]'ll be back by five".
</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Goofs">Goofs</span></h2>
<ul><li>About five minutes into the episode during a conversation between Chandler, Ross, and Rachel in the girls' apartment, a shadow can be seen passing behind the closet door in the back. This happens while the three friends are the only ones in the apartment, meaning that someone else was walking by backstage.
</li><li>When Phoebe is talking to Malcolm for the first time, her hands constantly move places, whenever the shot changes, with no time to do so.
</li><li>In the scene where Ross tells Rachel that they are alone in <a href="/wiki/Monica%27s_Apartment" title="Monica's Apartment">the apartment</a>, while he is leading her into the living room, the crew lights are visible at the top of the screen.
</li><li>In the scene where Malcolm is talking to Phoebe in the subway, you can hear him but his lips aren't moving.
</li><li>In the tag scene when Ross hits Chandler with his rolled up magazine, he only folds over one-third of the magazine. When it cuts to him hitting Chandler the magazine is fully folded over.
</li><li>About 22 minutes in, during the conversation of the sperm donors, the boom mic can be seen multiple times above them.
</li></ul>
